#separator:tab
#html:false
abound		exist in large numbers or amounts.	1) a business in which opportunities abound   2) errors and inconsistencies abound	proliferate, plentiful, copious, ample, brim, bristle, bulge, burst, bustle, buzz, crawl, hum,
amorphous	a + morph: no form	without a clearly defined shape or form.	1) an amorphous cloud mass	formless, shapeless, unformed, unshaped, unstructured,
belie		(of an appearance) fail to give a true impression of (something).fail to fulfill or justify (a claim or expectation).	She wasn't rich in life, her clothing belying her poverty, and even her death has been insulting.	conceal, disguise, misrepresentcontradict, confute; disprove, debunk
capricious	related to caprice. Car prices are unpredictable like a moody and whimsical child these days	given to sudden and unaccountable changes of mood or behavior; often spring from irrational and unpredictable whims, making them totally unreliable.	1) It was hopeless to try and argue with her capricious husband 2) capricious weather/winds	fickle, whimsical, quirky, changeable, changeful, flickery, fluctuating, fluid, inconsistent, inconstant,
cerebral		1. of the cerebrum of the brain. 2. intellectual rather than emotional or physical.	1) the cerebral cortex/hemisphere   2) a cerebral hemorrhage	blue, eggheaded, geeky, highbrow, highbrowed, intellectual, intellectualist, intellectualistic,
congenial		1. (of a person) pleasing or liked on account of having qualities or interests that are similar to one's own. 2. (of a thing) pleasant or agreeable because suited to one's taste or inclination.	1) I was working with a bunch of very congenial people  2) We studied in the congenial atmosphere of the library.	kindred, convivial, sociable, agreeable, blessed, darling, delectable, delicious, delightful, delightsome, dreamy,
conspicuous	If the jocks see us wearing anything that stands out, they can pick on us more easily	1. clearly visible. 2. attracting notice or attention.	He was very thin, with a conspicuous Adam's apple. The bird has a conspicuous red head, making it an easy prey.	clear, noticeable, observable, discernible, perceptible;obvious, manifest, evident, apparent, marked, pronounced, prominent, outstanding, patent, crystal clear; vivid, striking, dramatic, eye-catching, flagrant, ostentatious, overt, blatant,distinct, recognizable, distinguishable, unmistakable
cursory		hasty and therefore not thorough or detailed.	The officer takes a cursory peek inside my lunch bag—the contraband check.Only a cursory inspection of the building's electrical wiring was done.	desultory, casual, hasty, drive-by, flying, gadarene, hasty, headlong, helter-skelter, hurried, overhasty,
daunting		seeming difficult to deal with in prospect; intimidating.	1) a daunting task	formidable, intimidating, demoralizing, discomfiting, disconcerting, discouraging, disheartening, dismaying, dispiriting, discomforting,
deify	deity + fy	worship or regard as a god.	1) The people deified the emperor.   2) Our society deifies [=worships] money.	worship, venerate,  reverence, adore, adulate, canonize, dote (on), hero-worship, idolize,
didactic		1) intended to teach something, particularly in having moral instruction as a motive 2) in the manner of a teacher, particularly so as to appear patronizing.	1) a didactic novel that set out to expose social injustice. 2) The work is instructive without being didactic; Joachim finds beauty not in hiding from tension, but by keeping it in view as she sings and plays with joy.	instructive, informative, pedagogic, doctrinal, homiletic, moralistic, moralizing, preachy, sententious, sermonic,
disseminate		spread (something, especially information) widely.	And with the steady advances in telecommunications, they would soon be able to disseminate their own digital content in so many new ways to so many more people.	proclaim, promulgate, broadcast, circulate, propagate, spread,
feasible		possible to do easily or conveniently.	Anything seemed possible, likely, feasible, because I wanted everything to be possible	achievable, attainable, doable, possible, practicable, realizable, viable, workable,
flout	When a player tried to foul out of his way, defying the game rules, the audience all openly scorned him	openly disregard (a rule, law, or convention)	Isn’t this what he wanted—for me to turn my back on injustice by flouting the laws created for us blacks, no matter what might happen?	defy, scorn, despise, disregard, violate, breach
homogeneous		of the same kind; alike.	1) a racially homogeneous neighborhood [=a neighborhood in which all the people belong to the same race]   2) a fairly homogeneous collection of examples	similar, analogous, kindred, entire, homogenous, unchanging, uniform, unvaried, unvarying, akin, alike,
humdrum		1) adj. lacking excitement, boringly monotonous. 2) adj. not challenging; dull and lacking excitement 3) noun. the quality of wearisome constancy, routine, and lack of variety	1) Brains that are susceptible to migraines are more sensitive to change, so maintaining the humdrum part of your life is probably advisable, too. 2) But the rest of the storytelling is more traditional, and it is flattened by a humdrum plot and a poorly written female protagonist. 3) he was sick of the humdrum of his fellow prisoner	mundane, dull, monotonous, banal, prosaic, arid, boring, colorless, drab, dreary, drudging, dry,
insipid		1. lacking flavor; weak or tasteless. 2. lacking vigor or interest.	1) Movies burdened with insipid leads often make up for them with amusing sidekicks; “Midnight at the Magnolia” does not even try. 2) This may have looked like a side rejuvenated, but it was another largely insipid and lethargic showing from the Red Devils.	dead, flat, flavorless, savorless, tasteless, unsavory,
loquacious	From Latin loqui (talk) + -ious	tending to talk a great deal; talkative.	Even the loquacious Mrs. Hubbard was unnaturally quiet.	garrulous, verbose, blabby, chatty, conversational, gabby, motormouthed, mouthy, talkative,
misanthropic		having or showing a dislike of other people; unsociable.	1) He was shunned because of his miserable misanthropic nature.	antisocial, unfriendly, reclusive, uncongenial, cynical, pessimistic,
misnomer	mis (wrong) + nomer (name)	a wrong or inaccurate name or designation.	1) ‘International Airport’ is something of a misnomer, since almost all the arriving and departing flights are local.	baptismal name, Christian name, first name, forename, given name, appellation, appellative, cognomen,
negligent	adj for neglect	failing to take proper care over something.	1) was a careless workman, negligent of details	careless, derelict, disregardful, lax, lazy, neglectful, neglecting, remiss,
obsequious	ob-se-ki-ass. Obedient servants kiss your ass.	obedient or attentive to an excessive or servile degree.	1) She's constantly followed by obsequious assistants who will do anything she tells them to.	sycophantic, servile, fawning, kowtowing, obeisant, slavish, subordinate, subservient, amenable,
placate	A place full of cats can easily calm me down	make (someone) less angry or hostile.	1) The administration placated protesters by agreeing to consider their demands.   2) The angry customer was not placated by the clerk's apology.	pacify, appease, assuage, conciliate, disarm, gentle, mollify, propitiate,
proclivity		a tendency to choose or do something regularly; an inclination or predisposition towards a particular thing.	A proclivity for hard work	tendency, penchant, propensity, affection, affinity, aptitude, bent, bias, bone, devices, disposition,
puerile	Pure and childish, his jokes are immature and silly, like a young boy's pranks.	childishly silly and immature.	1) a puerile comedy   2) puerile behavior	adolescent, babyish, childish, immature, infantile, jejune, juvenile, kiddish,
quixotic	Don Quixote is quick to chase idealistic dreams	extremely idealistic; unrealistic and impractical.	John's quixotic quest to single-handedly clean up the entire city's coastline was admired for its idealism but viewed as impractical by most of his friends.	idealist, idealistic, quixotical, romantic, starry, starry-eyed, utopian, visionary,
spendthrift		a person who spends money in an extravagant, irresponsible way.	He’s a spendthrift and a gambler	extravagant, high-rolling, prodigal, profligate, squanderer, thriftless, unthrifty, wasteful,
taciturn		(of a person) reserved or uncommunicative in speech; saying little.	1) a somewhat taciturn young man	quiet, inarticulate, aloof, closemouthed, dumb, laconic, reserved, reticent, silent, tight-lipped, uncommunicative,
wary		feeling or showing caution about possible dangers or problems.	1) The store owner kept a wary eye on him.   2) Investors are increasingly wary about putting money into stocks.	alert, careful, cautious, chary, circumspect, conservative, considerate, gingerly,
austere	August severely limits the luxury of the ceremony, making it strictly simple	1. Strict in manner  2. Lack of comforts or luxuries	1) an austere Puritan	authoritarian, flinty, hard, harsh, heavy-handed, ramrod, rigid, rigorous,
adulterate		render (something) poorer in quality by adding another substance.	Only about 5 percent of 157 samples were found to be adulterated with lead chromate, down from nearly 50 percent before.	degrade, debase, taint, defile, adulterated, alloyed, contaminated, dilute, diluted, impure, polluted, tainted,
advocate		a person who publicly supports or recommends a particular cause or policy.		champion, supporter, proponent, advocator, apostle, backer, booster, espouser, exponent, expounder,
aggrandize	ag + grand + ize = make something grand	increase the power, status, or wealth of.	1) aggrandize an estate	canonize, deify, dignify, elevate, ennoble, enshrine, ensky, enthrone,
alacrity	With a lack of the city,  they were all eager to explore the countryside.	brisk and cheerful readiness.	He accepted his crush's invitation to the party with alacrity	eagerness, amenability, gameness, goodwill, obligingness, willingness,
ambivalent		having mixed feelings or contradictory ideas about something or someone.	1) … people whose relationship to their job is ambivalent, conflicted.   2) Americans are deeply ambivalent about the country's foreign role. Isolationist yearnings coexist uneasily with superpower policies.	conflicted, equivocal, indecisive, irresolute, wavering, vacillating
ameliorate		make (something bad or unsatisfactory) better.	1) medicine to ameliorate the pain	amend, better, enhance, enrich, help, improve, meliorate, perfect,
amenable	A men able to respond quickly to suggestion will succeed	1) open and responsive to suggestion; easily persuaded or controlled. 2) (amenable to) (of a thing) capable of being acted upon in a particular way; susceptible to	1) Parents who have had easy babies and amenable children. 2) The patients had cardiac failure not amenable to medical treatment.	1) compliant, acquiescent, biddable, manageable, controllable, governable, persuadable, responsive, pliant, malleable, complaisant, accommodating, docile, submissive, obedient, tame, meek, easily handled; 2) susceptible, receptive, responsive, reactive, vulnerable; defenseless against
anachronistic		belonging to a period other than the time being portrayed; chronically inconsistency especially the juxtaposition of people, events, objects that come from different time periods.	They were following mental anachronistic models of management that no longer fitted the world they were living in.	anachronous, antiquated, moldy, obsolete, rinky-dink, antique, oldfangled, old-fashioned,
audacious	au-dare-cious. The author dares to deceive us with the title.	1. showing a willingness to take surprisingly bold risks. 2. showing an impudent lack of respect.	1) an audacious mountain climber	bold, daring, intrepid, valiant, arch, bold-faced, brash, brassbound, brassy, brazen, brazen-faced,
avaricious		having or showing an extreme greed for wealth or material gain.	1) avaricious corporate bosses looking to maximize their profits	acquisitive, greedy, coveting, covetous, grabby, grasping, mercenary, prehensile
banal		so lacking in originality as to be obvious and boring.	1) He made some banal remarks about the weather.   2) After that, Craig Finch asked me more banal questions, like where I lived in New Jersey and what my favorite class at Duke had been and why.	trite, flat, trite, insipid, tired, milk-and-water, namby-pamby, watery, wishy-washy,
benign		1. gentle and kind. 2. not harmful to the environment.	1) a benign infection/disease	affectionate, amiable, genial, friendly, anodyne, harmless, hurtless, innocent, innocuous, inoffensive, safe, white,
brazen		bold and without shame.	Carroll later said that “amazed” him: How brazen was this man, who didn't run at the sight of the police?	defiant, arch, audacious, bold, bold-faced, brash, brassbound, brassy, brazen-faced,
calumny	They dare write columns to slander me	the making of false and defamatory statements about someone in order to damage their reputation; slander.	He denounced his opponent for his defamatory insinuations and calumny	slander, aspersing, blackening, calumniation, character assassination, defamation, defaming, libel, libeling,
candid		truthful and straightforward; frank.	1) a candid discussion	direct, forthcoming, forthright, foursquare, frank, free-spoken, freehearted, honest,
castigate		reprimand (someone) severely.	The judge castigated the lawyers for their lack of preparation.	reprimand, rebuke, baste, bawl out, berate, call down, chastise, chew out, dress down, flay,
caustic		sarcastic in a scathing and bitter way.able to burn or corrode organic tissue by chemical action.	The old woman’s voice was flat, nothing like her usually caustic toneAt the same time it continued to boil, forming thick, low clouds, dark as tar, caustic, and ready to burst into flame.	acerb, acerbic, corrosive, scathing, sardonic, acid, acidic, acidulous, acrid, barbed, biting,
construe		interpret (a word or action) in a particular way.	His words could hardly be construed as an apology.	interpret, clarify, clear (up), demonstrate, demystify, elucidate, explain, explicate, expound,
contrite	cant + right. I'm sorry that I can't do anything right.	feeling or expressing remorse at the recognition that one has done wrong.	“I’m sorry you lost your rocket stuff,” he told me, truly contrite.Mr. Johnson issued a contrite apology for attending the party in his backyard	apologetic, penitent, regretful, remorseful, repentant, rueful, sorry, compunctious
convoluted		1. (especially of an argument, story, or sentence) extremely complex and difficult to follow. 2. intricately folded, twisted, or coiled.	1) Other passages were so full of confusing, convoluted words that she ground her teeth at her own uselessness and skipped to something simpler. 2) The streets were as crooked and wayward as country streams, dissecting the city not into square blocks but into convoluted shapes of all sizes.	intricate, baroque, byzantine, complex, complicate, complicated, daedal, elaborate,
covet		yearn to possess (something, especially something belonging to another).	1) covet an award	ache (for), crave, desiderate, desire, die (for), hanker (for or after), hunger (for), itch (for),
craven	Cave-dwellers cringe and shy away from outside danger. They're cowardly	contemptibly lacking in courage; cowardly.	1) … craven mercenaries who would not fight …	cowardly, timid, spiritless, quaking, chicken, chicken-livered, chickenhearted, dastardly, gutless, lily-livered, milk-livered,
decorum		behaviour in keeping with good taste and propriety.	According to strict neoclassic decorum only the aristocracy had the right to appear in tragedy	etiquette, decency, form, propriety,
deft		neatly skilful and quick in one's movements.	1) the photographer's deft use of lighting   2) the deft fingers of the trumpeter	skillful, adept, adroit, proficient, artful, delicate, dexterous, expert, masterful, masterly,
demur		raise objections or show reluctance.	Normally she would have accepted the challenge, but she demurred.	protest, dissent, challenge, complaint, demurral, demurrer, difficulty, exception, expostulation, fuss,
derivative		1. (n) something which is based on another source. 2. (adj) imitative of the work of another artist, writer, etc., and usually disapproved of for that reason.	A derivative of the system was chosen for the Marine Corps’ V-22 tilt rotor aircraft.An artist who is not in the slightest bit derivative	imitative, banal, unoriginal, secondary, secondhand,
desiccate	From Latin desiccare (to dry throughly). The desert dried up all the water, leaving the plants desiccated under the scorching sun.	remove the moisture from (something); cause to become completely dry.	1) the desiccated land	dried, dehydrated, castrate, damp, dampen, deaden, dehydrate, devitalize, enervate, geld,
diatribe		a forceful and bitter verbal attack against someone or something.	The article is a blistering diatribe against mainstream media. a bitter diatribe about/on how unfair the tax system is	harangue, reprimand, rebuke, jeremiad, philippic, rant, tirade,
incredulous		(of a person or their manner) unwilling or unable to believe something.	1) She listened to his explanation with an incredulous smile.   2) He was incredulous at the news.   3) Many people were incredulous that such a small fire could have caused so much damage.	disbelieving, dubious, cynical, distrustful, doubting, mistrustful, negativistic, questioning, show-me, skeptical,
ingenuous		(of a person or action) innocent and unsuspecting.	She’s staggeringly ingenuous, or possibly she’s cunning indeed.	artless, genuine, guileless, honest, innocent, naive, natural, real,
abate	A bait declined in quality, so it did not attract as many fish as before.	(of something unpleasant or severe) become less intense or widespread.	1) waiting for the storm to abate	de-escalate, decline, decrease, die (away or down or out), diminish, drain (away), drop (off), dwindle,
abjure	"From Latin ab- (away) + jurare (swear, as in ""jury""). A jury rejects the defendant’s claims after the evidence is reviewed."	solemnly renounce (a belief, cause, or claim).	He refused to abjure the Catholic faith.	renounce, forswear, relinquish, repudiate, reject, abandon, abnegate
anomalous		deviating from what is standard, normal, or expected.	1) Researchers could not explain the anomalous test results.	abnormal, atypical,  peculiar, aberrant, aberrated, especial, exceeding, exceptional, extraordinaire,
antipathy	anti + pathos = against feeling	a deep-seated feeling of dislike; aversion.	1) an antipathy to taxes   2) a deep antipathy between the groups	animosity, animus, antagonism, aversion, abhorrence, bad blood, bitterness, enmity, gall, grudge,
arcane		understood by few; mysterious or secret.	1) modern math and its arcane notation  2) arcane rituals and rules	mysterious, concealed, covert, enigmatic, abstruse, cryptic, deep, esoteric, hermetic, profound, recondite,
arduous		involving or requiring strenuous effort; difficult and tiring.	1) an arduous task   2) years of arduous training	laborious, strenuous, relentless, formidable, Augean, backbreaking, challenging, demanding, difficult, effortful, exacting,
artless		without effort or pretentiousness; natural and simple.	1)    It’s her “artless” grace and “innocent” kisses that tell him so.	ingenuous, candid, genuine, guileless, honest, innocent, naive, natural, real,
ascetic	Aesthetic choices often diverge from self-discipline and simple living	characterized by severe self-discipline and abstention from all forms of indulgence, typically for religious reasons.	1) an ascetic monk   2) an ascetic diet	austere, abstinent, abstemious, frugal, monastic, monkish, authoritarian, flinty, hard, harsh, heavy-handed,
assuage		make (an unpleasant feeling) less intensesatisfy	Luckily, the letter assuaged the fears of most membersHer physical hunger could be quickly assuaged	allay, alleviate, ease, help, mitigate, mollify, palliate, relieve,
betray		1. unintentionally reveal; be evidence of. 2. expose (one's country, a group, or a person) to danger by treacherously giving information to an enemy.	My scent would hang heavily in the air and betray my presence to any animal nearby. They betrayed their country by selling its secrets to other governments.	divulge, expose, revealbackstab, cross, double-cross, sell (out), two-time,
bucolic	I'm a blue collar in the bucolic countryside	relating to the pleasant aspects of the countryside and country life.	As they drove through the bucolic countryside, Sarah marveled at its rolling green hills, grazing sheep, and quaint farmhouses nestled among ancient oak trees.	country, pastoral, rural, rustic,
burgeon		begin to grow or increase rapidly; flourish.	1) The market for collectibles has burgeoned in recent years.	proliferate, flourish, accelerate, accumulate, appreciate, balloon, boom, build up, climb, enlarge,
cacophonous	From Greek kakos (bad) + phōnē (sound). I hate the bad sounds from the nearby construction site; they were loud and discordant.	involving or producing a harsh, discordant mixture of sounds.	... like an old battlefield, once cacophonous with the clash of steel, the roar of cannon, the screams of wounded and dying men	loud; discordant, dissonant, inharmonious, unmelodious, unmusical, unvocal,
canonize		1. place in or regard as belonging to a canon of literary or artistic works. 2. (in the Roman Catholic Church) officially declare (a dead person) to be a saint.	1) She died 100 years ago and was canonized in Rome last year.	adore, adulate, deify, dote (on), hero-worship, idolize, worship,
censure	From Latin censura (judgment). A judge was publicly condemned for various misconduct	express severe disapproval of (someone or something), especially in a formal statement.	A judge was censured for a variety of types of injudicious conduct	commination, condemnation, denunciation, excoriation, objurgation, condemn, castigate, chastice, lambast; reprimand, berate, reprove, rebuke, admonish
chicanery	Looks like chicken + trickery. Chickens in the barn use trickery to steal corn.	the use of trickery to achieve a political, financial, or legal purpose	He wasn't above using chicanery to win votes.	deceit, duplicity, fraud, artifice, chicane, gamesmanship, hanky-panky, jiggery-pokery, jugglery, legerdemain, skulduggery,
coalesce		come together to form one mass or whole.	Instead of dispersing, they coalesced into him, clustering in the folds of his ragged cloak, disappearing into his mouth, and flying around his head like a screaming halo.	merge, blend, associate, combine, conjoin, conjugate, connect, couple, fuse, interfuse,
cogent	coherent arguments often sound more convincing	(of an argument or case) clear, logical, and convincing.	The lawyer's cogent argument swayed the jury's opinion and ultimately led to a favorable verdict for her client.	compelling, conclusive, potent, plausible, convincing, decisive, effective, forceful, persuasive, satisfying,
compelling		evoking interest, attention, or admiration in a powerfully irresistible way.		cogent, enthralling, captivating, riveting, mesmerizing, conclusive, convincing, decisive, effective, forceful, persuasive, satisfying,
contend	Looks like content. When companies are not content with their market share, they compete for more	compete with others in a struggle to achieve (something).assert something as a position in an argument.	"The pain of my body was enough for me to contend with.""The Internet is replete with novelty and variability,"" he contends."	strive, battle, compete, face off, fight, race, rival, vie,maintain, assert, postulate
copious		abundant in supply or quantity.	1) a copious harvest   2) copious springs	abundant, plentiful, ample, profuse, substantial, generous, galore, gushing, lavish, riotous,
cosmopolitan		1. including people from many different countries. 2. (of a plant or animal) found all over the world.		univeral, urbane, suave, smart, sophisticated, worldly, worldly-wise,
deference		polite submission and respect.	Her relatives treat one another with deference. In deference to her wishes, we spent two weeks on the coast.	esteem, respect, courtesy, reverence, veneration, acquiescence, biddability, compliance, compliancy, docility, obedience, submissiveness,
desultory	Looks like not + result + story. A halfhearted and perfunctory effort will not result in a good story	lacking a plan, purpose, or enthusiasm.	The student's desultory approach to studying resulted in poor grades and a superficial understanding of the subject.	lukewarm, cursory, casual, superficial, haphazard, aimless, arbitrary, catch-as-catch-can, erratic, helter-skelter, hit-or-miss, random,
diffident		modest or shy because of a lack of self-confidence.	1) He becomes diffident [=shy, timid] around girls.	shy, meek, timid, wary, backward, bashful, coy, demure, introverted, modest, recessive, retiring,
dilatory	The writer wants to delay the story, but is slow to talk to her rigid editor	slow to act.intended to cause delay.	He had been dilatory in appointing a solicitor. They resorted to dilatory procedural tactics, forcing a postponement of peace talks.	lax, slack, tardy, stalling, dillydallying, crawling, creeping, dallying, dawdling, dragging, laggard, lagging,
equivocate	equi + vocate: When we make similar (=equi) sounds, they conceal the meaning of individual words.	use ambiguous language so as to conceal the truth or avoid committing oneself.	1) The applicant seemed to be equivocating when we asked him about his last job.   2) When asked about her tax plan, the candidate didn't equivocate.	prevaricate, waver, quibble, fudge, hedge, pussyfoot, tergiversate, waffle, weasel,
polarize		divide or cause to divide into two sharply contrasting groups or sets of opinions or beliefs.	The controversial new policy seemed to polarize the community, with passionate supporters on one side and vehement opponents on the other, leaving very few people with neutral opinions.	divide, contrast,
prodigal	"Looks like ""prodigy."" That prodigal prodigy can be wasteful and generous because he scams a lot."	spending money or using resources freely and recklessly; wastefully extravagant.having or giving something on a lavish scale.	After years of living a prodigal lifestyle, spending his inheritance on lavish parties and extravagant purchases, John returned home penniless and remorseful. The dessert was crunchy with brown sugar and prodigal with whipped cream.	extravagant, imprudent, high-rolling, profligate, spendthrift, squandering, thriftless, unthrifty, wasteful,
verbose		using or expressed in more words than are needed.	He doesn't really say much either, which was interesting for me because I'm a pretty verbose guy.	loquacious, garrulous, voluble, orotund, prolix, circuitous, circumlocutory, diffuse, logorrheic, long-winded, pleonastic,
abstain		1. restrain oneself from doing or enjoying something.  2. formally decline to vote either for or against a proposal or motion.	I wonder why Therese abstains from food, though she is not bound by the nun’s vows. More than a third of the senators abstained from voting.	decline, refuse, reject, turn down, delay, halt, hesitate, stall,
approbation	approval	approval or praise.	1) a plan that has won the approbation of the mayor	approval, assent, commendation, blessing, favor, imprimatur, OK,
cherish		1. protect and care for (someone) lovingly. 2. keep (a hope or ambition) in one's mind.	1) cherished her friends	adore, love, worship, esteem, admire,
corroborate		confirm or give support to (a statement, theory, or finding).	1) Two witnesses corroborated [=confirmed] his story.	endorse, bolster, argue, attest, authenticate, bear out, certify, confirm, substantiate, support,
disparate	separate	essentially different in kind; not able to be compared.	1) The conversation covered topics as disparate [=diverse] as fashion and biology.   2) disparate cultures   3) music that combines/blends disparate [=dissimilar] elements	contrasting, different, dissimilar, distant, distinct, distinctive, distinguishable, diverse, nonidentical,
emulate		match or surpass (a person or achievement), typically by imitation.	My intent is not to honor these passages as if I were bestowing a prize, nor to hold them up as models for you to emulate.	imitate, mimic, equal,
enervate	"Looks like ""energy evaded."" I feel like my energy evaded. I'm so drained after the stupid long runs."	make (someone) feel drained of energy or vitality.	The voyage by boat, however, would probably enervate me, and I am certainly not perverse enough to attempt air travel even if I could afford it.	exhaust, weary, fatigue, enfeeble, castrate, damp, dampen, deaden, dehydrate, desiccate, devitalize, geld,
ephemeral		lasting for a very short time.		transitory, transient, cursory, brief, deciduous, evanescent, flash, fleeting, fugacious, fugitive, impermanent,
fervid		intensely enthusiastic or passionate, especially to an excessive degree.	The team's fans are known to be very fervent and full of passion. The politician spoke with a fervid intensity that made people want to vote for him.	ardent, intense, profound, avid, blazing, burning, charged, demonstrative, emotional, fervent, feverish,
garrulous		excessively talkative, especially on trivial matters.	He became more garrulous after drinking a couple of beers. “Sally asked so many garrulous, probative questions that at ten this morning I was reduced to answering, ‘I am sufficiently well, madam.’	loquacious, voluble, verbose, prolix, blabby, chatty, conversational, gabby, motormouthed, mouthy, talkative,
incendiary	Too much incense can ignite a spark as an explosive, and evoke provocative reactions from people who inhaled the smoke.	tending to stir up conflict. (of a device or attack) designed to cause fires.a person who starts fire (military context) or conflicts	The fire spread far into the countryside, and now the rebels are huddled in the blackened ruins as fitting punishment for their incendiary havoc.There need to be regulations for flamethrowers, explosives, and any other incendiary device.	inflammatory, rabble-rousing, provocative, agitational, seditious, subversive, revolutionary, insurrectionary, insurrectionistcombustible, flammable, inflammablearsonist, firebug, agitator
inimical	enemy causes damage, thus is inimical	tending to obstruct or harm.	Winter is an inimical world; its punishment for doing things wrong is sure and prompt: death from cold or death from hunger.The Frostfangs were as cruel as any place the gods had made, and as inimical to men.	detrimental, harmful, contrary, adversarial, adversary, antagonistic, antipathetic, hostile, inhospitable, jaundiced, mortal,
intimate	Even among intimate couples, some personal issues might only be hinted, not easily stated	1. closely acquainted; familiar. 2. to state or make known. 3. to imply or hint subtly	She intimated that there might be a promotion coming up soon, though she didn't confirm it.	cherished, bosom, hospitable, confidential, devoted, buddy-buddy, chummy, close, especial, familiar, friendly, inseparable,
invigorate		give strength or energy to.	1) A brisk walk in the cool morning air always invigorates me.   2) He was invigorated by the positive feedback.	revitalize, rejuvenate, motivate, stimulate, amp (up), animate, brace, energize, enliven, fillip, fire, ginger (up),
mitigate		make (something bad) less severe, serious, or painful.	1) aggressiveness may be mitigated or … channeled	alleviate, assuage, diminish, attenuate, appease, ease, help, mollify, palliate, relieve, allay,
obsolete		no longer produced or used; out of date.		antiquated, archaic, anachronistic, dated, démodé, demoded, fossilized, kaput, medieval,
opaque		1. not able to be seen through; not transparent.  2. (especially of language) hard or impossible to understand.	1) opaque glass   2) the opaque water of the muddy river	blurred, smeared, ambiguous, arcane, cryptic, dark, deep, Delphic, double-edged, elliptical,
paradigmatic	adj of 'paradigm'	1. serving as a typical example of something. 2. of or denoting the relationship between a set of linguistic items that form mutually exclusive choices in particular syntactic roles. Some types of relations are synonyms, antonyms, hyponyms,	His biography is paradigmatic of the experiences of this generation.	model, pattern, archetypal, classic, definitive, exemplary, imitable, quintessential, textbook,
pedantic	Dan ticked me off when he was being overly pedantic, explaining every detail to me as if I were a child.	excessively concerned with minor details or rules; overscrupulous.	Stripping pods is a precise and meticulous job that might be suited to pedantic dentists or finicky spice experts.	scrupulous, perfectionist, punctilious, meticulous, fastidious, finicky, dogmatic, quibbling, inkhorn, didactic, high-toned, hyperintellectual, high-hat, snobbish, snobby, snooty,
placid		1. not easily upset or excited.  2. calm and peaceful, with little movement or activity.	1) placid skies   2) a placid disposition	calm, serene, collected, composed, cool, coolheaded, equal, level, limpid,
polemical	"From Greek ""polemos"" (war). Political stances on this war are problematic and controversial"	of or involving strongly critical or disputatious writing or speech.	"Pohl co-authored 1991's ""Our Angry Earth,"" a polemical essay against humankind's environmental destruction"	critical, hostile, vitriolic, virulent, sardonic, argumentative, contentious, controversial, disputatious, quarrelsome, scrappy,
precipitate		cause (an event or situation, typically one that is undesirable) to happen suddenly, unexpectedly, or prematurely.	The sudden announcement of budget cuts precipitated a crisis in the department, causing immediate concern among staff and forcing managers to quickly develop contingency plans.	provoke, expedite, cursory, drive-by, flying, gadarene, hasty, headlong, helter-skelter, hurried,
profundity	noun of profound	deep insight; great depth of knowledge or thought great depth of insight or knowledge.	Prévert is amazing because, as a writer, he has immense profundity, but his language is really, really simple.	wisdom, perception, segacity, acuity, deepness, depth, profoundness,
prophetic		accurately predicting what will happen in the future.	It bet, in effect, on England rather than France as the hegemonic European power of the future, which proved prophetic.	prescient, predictive, prognostic, augural
prudent		acting with or showing care and thought for the future.	He wondered whether to go and look for Hyzenthlay, but decided that it would be prudent to keep away from her.	wise, shrewd, sagacious, far-sighted, thrifty, discreet, intelligent, judgmatic, judicious,
punctilious	punctual + meticulous	showing great attention to detail or correct behavior.	1) She's very punctilious about grammar.   2) a punctilious [=meticulous] caretaker	meticulous, diligent, scrupulous, thorough, ceremonious, correct, decorous, formal, nice, proper, starchy, stiff,
recondite	The teacher re-conducts the lesson because students reckon it as an abstruse subject.	(of a subject or knowledge) little known; abstruse.	The professor's lectures were so abstruse that students tended to avoid them	abstruse, arcane, obscure, prfound, cryptic, deep, esoteric, hermetic,
scrupulous	Looks like sculpture. To make sculpture, you must be very attentive to details	having moral integrity; very concerned to avoid doing wrong(of a person or process) careful, thorough, and extremely attentive to details.	They were scrupulous in their testing.She's too scrupulous to have an affair with a married man.	careful, meticulous, painstaking, thorough, assiduous, sedulous, attentive, diligent, conscientious, ultracareful, punctilious, elaborate, minute, studious, rigorous, particularhonest, honorable, upright, conscientious, upstanding, high-minded, righteous, right-minded, virtuous, principled, proper, just, noble, incorruptible, respectable
tranquil		free from disturbance; calm.	1) a tranquil self-assurance	arcadian, calm, hushed, peaceful, placid, quiet, restful, serene,
vacillate	From Latin vacillare (waver). Looks like vaccinate + oscillate. Whether to vaccinate or not, the patient wavered in their decision, oscillating back and forth.	waver between different opinions or actions; be indecisive.	My love for him vacillated from one entry to another.	waver, oscillate, dither, falter, halt, hang back, hesitate, scruple, shilly-shally,
aloof		not friendly or forthcoming; cool and distant.		austere, detached, distant, formal, antisocial, asocial
clangor		a continuous loud banging or ringing sound.	The clangor of machinery and hammer greeted her—unfamiliar noises that mingled with men shouting and women singing.	babel, blare, bluster, bowwow, brawl, bruit, cacophony, chatter,
conventional		1. based on or in accordance with what is generally done or believed.  2. (of a bid) intended to convey a particular meaning according to an agreed convention.	1) The number sign is the conventional symbol for labeling something measured in pounds.   2) Today, many patients seek healing through both alternative medicine and {phrase}conventional medicine{/phrase}. [=the usual methods of healing or treating disease that are taught in Western medical schools]	traditional, typical, prosaic current, customary, prevailing, standard
debunk		expose the falseness or hollowness of (an idea or belief).	1) debunk a legend	expose, belie, confound, confute, disconfirm, discredit, disprove, falsify, rebut,
diminutive		1. extremely or unusually small. 2. (of a word, name, or suffix) implying smallness, either actual or imputed to convey affection, scorn etc.	On the round table is a diminutive figure dressed in black.	petite, tiny, bantam, dinky, dwarfish, fine, half-pint, Lilliputian, little, pint-size,
discernible		able to be discerned; perceptible. discern = recognize or find out, distinguish, perceive, detect	There is little difference in the performance of male and female chefs discernable to the eye or palate.	noticeable, appreciable, apprehensible, detectable, distinguishable, perceptible, sensible,
enigmatic	A night of magic is mysterious and difficult to understand	difficult to interpret or understand; mysterious, concealed	My mother tried to explain, yet each time she did I found her explanations vague, cryptic, obscure, ambiguous, enigmatic and too fantastic to be believable.	arcane, cryptic, deep, impenetrable, inscrutable, mysterious, mystic, occult,
estranged		(of a person) no longer close or affectionate to someone; alienated.	He had taken out a life insurance policy on his estranged wife just weeks before her murder …	alienated, antagonistic, hostile, unfriendly, chilly, cold, cold-blooded, cool,
extravagant		lacking restraint in spending money or using resources.	1) extravagant claims	high-rolling, prodigal, profligate, spendthrift, squandering, thriftless, unthrifty, wasteful,
fanciful		1. over-imaginative and unrealistic.  2. highly ornamental or imaginative in design.	1) a fanciful person   2) a fanciful tale of a monster in the woods	whimsical, capricious, ornate, quixotic, eccentric, absurd, bizarre, crazy, fantastic, foolish, insane, nonsensical, preposterous,
frivolous	Free-willed children are flippant, making trivial tricks on others. But they’re giddy.	not having any serious purpose or value.	Some are serious, and some are frivolous - but all are entertaining. She spends all her allowance on frivolous purchases	glib, senseless, flippant, fiddling, foolish, incidental, inconsequential, inconsiderable, insignificant, little
heterogeneous		diverse in character or content.	1) an ethnically heterogeneous population	assorted, sundry, eclectic, indiscriminate, kitchen-sink, magpie, miscellaneous, mixed, motley,
imperious	From Latin imperium (command). The leader acted like an imperial, commanding others with a domineering sense of superiority.	assuming power or authority without justification; arrogant and domineering	The imperious CEO strode into the meeting room, demanding instant compliance with her every command.	authoritarian, autocratic, bossy, despotic, dictatorial, domineering, masterful,
impertinent		1. not showing proper respect; rude, impolite 2. not pertinent to a particular matter; irrelevant.	1) an impertinent answer 2) talk of “rhetoric” and “strategy” is impertinent to this process.	arch, audacious, bold, bold-faced, brash, brassbound, brassy, brazen,
invasive		(especially of plants or a disease) tending to spread prolifically and undesirably or harmfullytending to intrude (especially for privacy)	Patients are suffering from invasive cancer.	encroaching, trespassing, intrusive
irresolute		showing or feeling hesitancy; uncertain.	He stepped forward; but Boromir stood irresolute and did not follow.	halting, hesitant, indecisive, infirm, vacillating, wavering, characterless, effete,
laudable		(of an action, idea, or aim) deserving praise and commendation.	She has shown a laudable devotion to her children.	admirable, applaudable, commendable, creditable, estimable, meritorious, praiseworthy,
lax		1. not sufficiently strict, severe, or careful.  2. (of the limbs or muscles) relaxed.		slack, careless, derelict, disregardful, lazy, neglectful, neglecting, negligent, remiss,
marginalize		treat (a person, group, or concept) as insignificant or peripheral.	We are protesting policies that marginalize women.
panache	Sounds like pan-ash. The kids brought a pan of ash with flamboyant confidence.	flamboyant confidence of style or manner.	The model entertained the difficult audience with great panache.	flamboyance, confidence, self-assurance, style, stylishness, flair
plodding	The plot of the novel is slow-moving, with characters trudging through their tedious adventures, making every page feel like an unexciting journey.	slow-moving and unexciting.	The procession was, as usual, somber, slow, and insufferably plodding.	trudge, stomp, determined, dogged, patient, persevering, persistent, pertinacious, relentless
prosaic	Prose in a book seems dull and unimaginative compared to poetry.	having or using the style or diction of prose as opposed to poetry; lacking imaginativeness or originality.	The prosaic life of a hardworking farmer She believes the noises are made by ghosts, but I think there's a more prosaic explanation.	humdrum, mundane, plodding, average, common, commonplace, cut-and-dried, everyday, garden-variety, normal, ordinary,
remedial		giving or intended as a remedy or cure.	Officials have pledged remedial measures to repair damaged bridges.	amendatory, corrective, rectifying, reformative, reformatory, remedying,
restive	restless	(of a person) unable to remain still, silent, or submissive, especially because of boredom or dissatisfaction.	1) a restive audience   2) The audience grew/became restive.	restless, fidgety, balky, contrary, contumacious, defiant, disobedient, froward, incompliant, insubordinate,
sporadic		occurring at irregular intervals or only in a few places; scattered or isolated.	1) sporadic protests   2) a sporadic disease	aperiodic, casual, catchy, choppy, discontinuous, episodic, erratic, fitful,
stigmatize		describe or regard as worthy of disgrace or great disapproval.	1) Society stigmatizes welfare recipients.   2) a legal system that stigmatizes juveniles as criminals	condemn, denounce, disparage, brand, tag, baptize, call, christen, clepe, denominate, designate,
undermine		1. lessen the effectiveness, power, or ability of, especially gradually or insidiously.  2. erode the base or foundation of (a rock formation).	1) trying to undermine his political rivals	deteriorate, enervate, enfeeble, weaken, blemish, bloody, break, compromise,
utterly		completely and without qualification; absolutely.	Whatever this stuff is, it comprises as much as 90% of the mass of the universe. It is also utterly invisible.Cut off utterly from her past, but socially unacceptable in this new world, Irene chooses the same refuge that's worked for her as a child: poetry.	all, all of, all over, altogether, clean, completely, dead, enough,
weary		feeling or showing extreme tiredness, especially as a result of excessive exertion.		tired, worn out, exhausted, all in, aweary, beat, beaten, bleary, burned-out, bushed, dead,
zealous		having or showing zeal. zeal = passion, love, interest	1) zealous missionaries	enthusiastic, fervent, keen, ardent, fiery, passionate, dedicated, impassioned, earnest
admonish	Admins who are dishonest must be reprimanded	warn or reprimand someone firmly.	She admonished me for appearing at the breakfast unshaven	castigate, censure, lambast, berate, reprimand, chastice, chide, rebuke, reproach, reprove, tick off,
aesthetic		concerned with beauty or the appreciation of beauty.		decorative, ornamental, elegant, exquisite, attractive, beauteous, beautiful, bonny, comely, cute, drop-dead, fair,
affectation		behavior, speech, or writing that is pretentious and designed to impress.	1) His French accent is just an affectation.	pretension, pretence, insincere, affectedness, grandiosity, inflation, pretentiousness,
alleviate		make (suffering, deficiency, or a problem) less severe.		allay, assuage, ease, help, mitigate, mollify, palliate, relieve,
analogous		comparable in certain respects, typically in a way which makes clearer the nature of the things compared.	1) Timbre in music is analogous to color in painting.   2) An airplane's joystick is somewhat analogous to the reins on a horse.   1) a town council and a government body that serves an analogous function	comparable, kindred, akin, alike, cognate, connate, correspondent, corresponding, ditto,
bolster		support or strengthen.		strengthen, reinforce, supplement, revitalize, invigorate, bear, brace, buttress, carry, prop (up), shore (up), stay, support,
chauvinistic		displaying excessive or prejudiced support for one's own cause or group, in particular showing male prejudice against womenfeeling or displaying aggressive or exaggerated patriotism	She overcomes the surly objections of her chauvinistic editor to uncover the truth a chauvinistic attitude toward other countries.	chauvinist, jingoist, jingoistic, nationalist, nationalistic, superpatriotic,
connoisseur		an expert judge in matters of taste.	The palace would send only an expert—a true connoisseur—to handle the task of commissioning work.	expert, pundit, savant, aesthete, cognoscente, dilettante,
dissemble	They disassemble the guns to conceal their motives at the airport security.	conceal or disguise one's true motives, feelings or beliefs.	She is an honest, sincere person who has no need to dissemble.  We can't believe such an honest, sincere person could suddenly dissemble the facts.	pretend, dissimulate, masquerade, act, affect, assume, bluff, counterfeit, fake, feign, pass (for),
dogged		having or showing tenacity and grim persistence.	1) a dogged competitor   2) dogged devotion	tenacious, relentless, insistent, patient, persevering, persistent, pertinacious,
dupe		deceive; trickvictim of deception	“There was a trickster god named Loki who duped him into not finishing the gate,” he said.	deceieve, hoodwink, hoax, swindle, double cross
empirical		based on, concerned with, or verifiable by observation or experience rather than theory or pure logic.	1) empirical data	observational, factual, pragmatic, existential, experiential, experimental, objective,
engender	enable + generate = cause. Enabling gender-neutral saunas to operate may cause many issues.	cause or give rise to (a feeling, situation, or condition).	The issue has engendered a considerable amount of debate.	catalyze, provoke, incite, instigate, beget, breed, bring, bring about, bring on, cause, create,
entitled		believing oneself to be inherently deserving of privileges or special treatment.	1) kids who feel so entitled, think the world will revolve around them 2) After having saved the country, ain't they entitled to help themselves to just as much of it as they want?	authorized, privileged, qualified,
pertinacious	persistent + tenacious	holding firmly to an opinion or a course of action.	Despite repeated rejections, the pertinacious salesman refused to give up, continuing to pitch his product.	dogged, insistent, viscous, patient, persevering, persistent, tenacious,
presumptuous		(of a person or their behaviour) failing to observe the limits of what is permitted or appropriate/overconfident	It was presumptuous of me to just show up and ask you to drop everything. It is me who needs to be forgiven.What must it be like to be the focus of such intrusive thoughts and presumptuous narratives?	brazen, audacious, impertinent, bold, familiar, forward, free, immodest, overfamiliar, presuming,
probity	From Latin probus (good, virtuous), same root as “prove.” You have to prove your integrity by showing you’re not cheating on the tests and deceiving proctors.	the quality of having strong moral principles; honesty and decency.	It is hard today to imagine a world in which the written word meant so much that one writer’s refusal to publish made him a national example of moral probity.	integrity, honesty, character, decency, goodness, morality, rectitude, righteousness,
proliferate	promote life rate	increase rapidly in number; multiply.	1) New problems have proliferated in recent months. [=many new problems have occurred in recent months]	burgeon, accelerate, accumulate, appreciate, balloon, boom, build up, climb,
specious		superficially plausible, but actually wrong.	Any connection, no matter how specious, might be used to justify his incarceration and extend it.	beguiling, deceitful, deceiving, deceptive, deluding, delusive, delusory, fallacious,
spurious	spur + ious. The spur (incentives) were exposed as bogus during the investigation. The businesses were never sincere.	not being what it purports to be; false or fake.	1) spurious [=fake] gems   2) spurious [=insincere] kindness	specious, factitious, bogus, counterfeit, fake, false, forged, inauthentic, phony, queer,
subjective		based on or influenced by personal feelings, tastes, or opinions.		personalized, instinctive, prejudiced, bigoted, idiomatic, individual, individualized, particular, patented, peculiar, personal,
subvert	sub + vert = below + turn = undermine The submarine's mission was to overthrow the enemy from below the surface.	undermine the power and authority of (an established system or institution).	They conspired to subvert the government.	overthrow, unsettle, topple, abase, bastardize, canker, cheapen, corrupt, debase, debauch, degrade,
timorous	"Same Latin root ""timere"" (to fear) as ""timid"""	showing or suffering from nervousness or a lack of confidence.	1) reproached myself with being so timorous and cautious	timid, apprehensive, trembling, diffident, fainthearted, fearful, fearsome, mousy, scary, shy, skittish,
tortuous		1. full of twists and turns.  2. excessively lengthy and complex.	They followed the tortuous route into the uncharted forest. He was as tortuous and convoluted as a monkey puzzle tree.	sinuous, undulating, meandering, bending, crazy, crooked, curled, curling, curved, curving, curvy,
tractable	Tractor makes it easy to manage the field	easy to control or influence.	1) a tractable horse	amenable, biddable, compliant, conformable, docile, law-abiding, obedient, submissive,
transient		lasting only for a short time; impermanent.		ephemeral, brief, deciduous, evanescent, flash, fleeting, fugacious, fugitive,
ubiquitous		present, appearing, or found everywhere.	1) a ubiquitous fashion	omnipresent, pervasive, prevalent, common, common or garden, commonplace, everyday, familiar, frequent, garden-variety, household,
underscore		emphasize; give extra weight to	As a result, they were making startling discoveries that only underscored the constraints faced by their American colleagues.	accentuate, bring out, emphasize, italicize, stress, underline, highlight
venal	Looks like venue. This huge venue is sponsored by a corrupt businessman	showing or motivated by susceptibility to bribery; corrupt.	Their generosity had been at least partly venal Why should these venal politicians care how they are rated?	grafting, unscrupulous, avaricious, bribable, corruptible, dirty, purchasable,
venerate		regard with great respect; revere.	1) a writer venerated by generations of admirers   2) She is venerated as a saint.	adore, deify, glorify, revere, reverence, worship,
appease		pacify or placate (someone) by acceding to their demands. assuage or satisfy (a demand or a feeling).	They appeased the dictator by accepting his demands in an effort to avoid war. His critics were not appeased by this last speech.	assuage, pacify, placate, conciliate, disarm, mollify, propitiate,
arbitrary		1. based on random choice or personal whim, rather than any reason or system.  2. (of power or a ruling body) unrestrained and autocratic in the use of authority.	1) an arbitrary choice   2) When a task is not seen in a meaningful context it is experienced as being arbitrary.	capricious, whimsical, erratic, haphazard, dictatorial, high-handed, imperious, peremptory, willful,
archaic		very old or old-fashioned.	1) an archaic word	antiquated, anachronistic, obsolete, dated, démodé, demoded, fossilized, kaput, medieval, moribund,
clamorous		1. making a loud and confused noise.  2. expressing or characterized by vehement protests or demands.	1) clamorous city streets	blatant, caterwauling, clamant, obstreperous, squawking, vociferant, vociferating, vociferous,
dearth		a scarcity or lack of something.		scantiness, meagreness, crunch, deficiency, deficit, drought, failure, famine, inadequacy, inadequateness,
explicable		able to be accounted for or understood.	1) phenomena explicable by the laws of physics   2) his least explicable mistake	comprehensible, exponible, answerable, explainable, resolvable, soluble, solvable,
hyperbole		exaggerated statements or claims not meant to be taken literally.	The customer's letter of complaint was filled with hyperboles and outrageous claims.	exaggeration, embellishment, caricature, coloring, elaboration, embroidering, embroidery, magnification,
immutable		unchanging over time or unable to be changed.	1) the immutable laws of nature   2) immutable opposition	indelible, entrenched, fixed, hard-and-fast, inalterable, incommutable, inflexible, invariable, unalterable, unchangeable,
indefatigable	in (not) + de (less) + fatigued (tired) + able = tireless	(of a person or their efforts) persisting tirelessly.	1) an indefatigable worker	unwearied, unrelenting, dogged, inexhaustible, tireless, unflagging, untiring, weariless,
indolent	in + doler: not hurt	wanting to avoid activity or exertion; lazy. (of a disease or condition) causing little or no pain.	They were indolent and addicted to a life of pleasure	lazy, idle, slothful, loafing, work-shy, shiftless, apathetic, lackadaisical, inactive, inert, lifeless, sluggish, lethargic, listless, languid, torpid,
insular		ignorant of or uninterested in cultures, ideas, or peoples outside one's own experience.	1) an insular [=isolated] group   2) the insular world of boarding schools   3) an insular [=narrow] way of thinking	blinkered, parochial, myopic, illiberal, Lilliputian, little, narrow, narrow-minded, parochial, petty, picayune,
intransigent	in + trans + gene: not change opinions	unwilling or refusing to change one's views or to agree about something.	Her father had tried persuasion, but she was intransigent.	stubborn, adamant, tenacious, rigid, uncompromising, unbending, unyielding, unshakeable, unwavering, resolute, unpersuadable, unmalleable, unaccommodating, obstinate, obdurate, pigheaded, bull-headed, inexorable, inveterate,
intrepid		fearless; adventurous (often used for rhetorical or humorous effect).	1) an intrepid explorer	dauntless, audacious, unflinching, bold, brave, courageous, doughty, fearless, gallant, greathearted,
irreverent		showing a lack of respect for people or things that are generally taken seriously.	1) He has a delightfully irreverent sense of humor.   2) irreverent portrayals of nuns   3) an irreverent comedian	disdainful, scornful, contemptuous, impertinent, flippant, disparaging, blasphemous, impious, profane, sacrilegious,
loathe		feel intense dislike or disgust for.	1) She loathed him.   2) They were rivals who truly/bitterly loathed each other.   3) I loathe having to do this.   4) It was a habit his wife loathed.	abhor, abominate, execrate, despise, detest, hate,
malign		(adj) evil in nature or effect.(v) speak about (someone) in a spitefully critical manner.	she had a strong and malign influence. don't you dare malign her in my presence.	inimical, malevolent, vicious, bad, bitchy, catty, cruel, despiteful, hateful, malicious,defame, slander, libel, smear, villify, denigrate
malleable		easily influenced; pliable.	1) a malleable metal	pliable, ductile, amenable, docile, moldable, plastic, shapable, waxy,
neophyte		a person who is new to a subject or activity. a new convert to a religion.	a political neophyte [=a person just starting in politics]	beginner, learner, novice, newcomer, tyro, fledgling; trainee, apprentice, probationer novice, novitiate; postulant, proselyte, catechumen
plastic		1. not genuine; artificial or unnatural.  2. (of a substance or material) easily shaped or moulded.		artificial, spurious, malleable, pliable, moldable, shapable, waxy,
platitude	Looks like flat attitude. Flat attitude is what overused remarks deserve.	a remark or statement, especially one with a moral content, that has been used too often to be interesting or thoughtful.	His speech was filled with familiar platitudes about the value of hard work and dedication.	cliché, truism, commonplace, hackneyed/trite/banal/overworked saying, banality, old chestnut; bromide, inanity
prescient	pre + science = before knowledge	having or showing knowledge of events before they take place.	Much of what happened was predicted in Leonard's prescient article.	farseeing, farsighted, prognostic, prophetic, forehanded, foreseeing, foresighted, forethoughtful, forward, forward-looking,
pristine		in its original condition; unspoilt.	The hypothetical pristine lunar atmosphere	immaculate, flawless, unblemished, unsullied, brand-new, fresh, mint, span-new, virgin, virginal,
reproach		express to (someone) one's disapproval of or disappointment in their actions.	She is quick to reproach anyone who doesn't live up to her own high standards	rebuke, admonish, chastice, castigate, berate, lambast, disgrace, dishonor, opprobrium, reflection, scandal,
robust		1. strong and healthy; vigorous.  2. (of wine or food) strong and rich in flavour or smell.	1) robust young men and women   2) He is in robust health.	vigorous, sinewy, resilient, able-bodied, bouncing, fit, hale, healthy, hearty, sound, well,
salubrious		1. health-giving; healthy.  2. (of a place) pleasant; not run-down.	1) salubrious habits	pleasant, luxurious, good, healthful, healthy, medicinal, restorative, salutary, salutiferous, sanative,
sanction		1. a threatened penalty for disobeying a law or rule (foreign affairs) 2. official permission or approval for an action (domestic contexts)	international sanctions against the republic go into effect in Januarythe proposal is going to receive the sanction of the court.	penalty, punishment, deterrent; embargo authorization, consent, leave, permission, authority, warrant, license, dispensation, assent, acquiescence, agreement, approval
sedulous	"Sounds like ""seduced love."" The diligent actress was bound to the company since she was seduced and loved the CEO."	showing dedication and diligence	Her sedulous work ethic earned her a promotion within the first year.	diligent, industrious, meticulous
soporific	A long spa can make you feel drowsy	tending to induce drowsiness or sleep.	Some medicine made her soporific.	sedative, calmative, tranquilizing, monotonous, drowsy, hypnotic, narcotic, opiate, sleepy, slumberous, somniferous, somnolent,
stern		(of a person or their manner) serious and unrelenting, especially in the assertion of authority and exercise of discipline.		grim, austere, authoritarian, stringent, flinty, hard, harsh, heavy-handed, ramrod, rigid,
tendentious	tendency to be controversial	expressing or intending to promote a particular cause or point of view, especially a controversial one.	He made some extremely tendentious remarks.	argumentative, biased, doubtful, one-sided, opinionated, partial, partisan, prejudiced, provocative, questionable, subjective
accentuate	The speaker used his accent to highlight key points of the message.	make more noticeable or prominent.	1) With her hair in tight curls that accentuate her pale beauty, she seems lit from within.   2) trying to accentuate the positive aspects of the program	accent, emphasize, feature, foreground, highlight, illuminate, play up, point (up),
conjectural		based on or involving conjecture, an opinion or conclusion formed on the basis of incomplete information	Without evidence, his conclusions are only conjectural.	speculative, academic, hypothetical, notional, presumed, tentative, suppositional, theoretical,
convivial	con + vivre = friendly to live with	friendly, lively, and enjoyable.	he was always a convivial host the convivial after-dinner atmosphere	congenial, affable, gregarious, boon, clubbable, clubby, companionable, extroverted, outgoing, sociable,
decadent	decay + self-indulgent Decay in the cave shows a self-indulgent lifestyle of excess and moral decline.	characterized by or reflecting a state of moral or cultural declineluxuriously self-indulgent	The writer, however, views these parties as decadent and immoral, especially in a time of war, and they raise his ire. The decadent eldest son, Prince Balekin, is sprawled in a carved chair, three attendants around him.	dissolute, dissipated, profligate, corrupt, decayed, degenerate, effete, overripe, washed-up,
egregious		outstandingly bad; shocking.	The article contains a number of egregious [=glaring, obvious] errors. Such an egregious misconduct is intolerable.	shocking, appalling, horrific, horrifying, horrible, terrible, awful, dreadful, grievous, gross, ghastly, hideous, horrendous, frightful, atrocious, abominable, abhorrent, outrageous; monstrous, nightmarish, heinous, harrowing, dire, unspeakable, shameful; flagrant, glaring, blatant, scandalous, unforgivable, unpardonable, intolerable.
evanescent		soon passing out of sight, memory, or existence; quickly fading or disappearing.	1) evanescent fame	brief, deciduous, ephemeral, transient, flash, fleeting, fugacious, fugitive, impermanent,
flamboyant		1. (of a person or their behaviour) tending to attract attention because of their exuberance, confidence, and stylishness.  2. bright, colourful, and very noticeable.	He was a modest man with impeccable manners who was at the same time flamboyant and very funny.	ostentatious, buoyant, arresting, bodacious, bold, brilliant, catchy, commanding, conspicuous, dramatic,
forestall	Before the stall, the car was stopped from moving forward by a preventive barrier.	prevent or obstruct (an anticipated event or action) by taking advance action.	1) forestalling the wheat harvest and selling it at three times its cost	anticipate, pre-empt,  thwart, avert, preclude, head off, help, obviate, preclude, prevent, stave off,
gainsay	You don’t gain anything by saying it again. No need denying the fact	deny or contradict (a fact or statement).	The impact of the railroads cannot be gainsaid	contradict, deny, repudiate, debunk, disaffirm, disallow, disavow, disclaim, disconfirm, disown,
galvanize	The gals in van, revitalized after the shock, were stirred up to escape the hijack.	1. shock or excite (someone) into taking action.  2. coat (iron or steel) with a protective layer of zinc.	We need a moral victory, something to galvanize public opinion Zinc is used to galvanize steel piping	startle, spur, impel, charge, invigorate, arouse, electrify, excite, exhilarate, intoxicate, pump up, thrill, titillate,
indiscriminate		done at random or without careful judgement.	1) indiscriminate reading habits   2) indiscriminate mass destruction	nonselective, haphazard, assorted, eclectic, heterogeneous, kitchen-sink, magpie, miscellaneous, mixed, motley,
innocuous	innocent, not noxious	not harmful or offensive.	1) He told a few innocuous jokes.   2) an innocuous question	anodyne, benign, harmless, hurtless, insipid, innocent, inoffensive, safe, white,
momentary		lasting for a very short time; brief.	1) There was a momentary [=brief] pause between songs.   2) He experienced a momentary loss of consciousness.	trancient, brief, deciduous, ephemeral, evanescent, flash, fleeting, fugacious, fugitive,
mundane		1. lacking interest or excitement; dull.  2. of this earthly world rather than a heavenly or spiritual one.	1) mundane chores, like washing dishes   2) They lead a pretty mundane life.	monotonous, wearisome, everyday, nitty-gritty, prosaic, terrestrial, workaday,
nettlesome	"Sound likes ""meddle-some."" Why you keep meddling? It's bothersome!"	causing annoyance or difficulty.	He attempted to tackle the nettlesome issue of police and community relations.	abrasive, aggravating, annoying, bothersome, carking, chafing, disturbing, exasperating,
nullify		make legally null and void; invalidate.	1) The law has been nullified by the U.S. Supreme Court.	abate, abolish, abrogate, reverse, rescind, annul, avoid, cancel, disannul, dissolve, negate
obviate	Looks like ob (obstruct) + via (way). To avoid obstructing the way, obvious barriers should be removed.	1. remove (a need or difficulty).  2. avoid or prevent (something undesirable).	The new medical treatment obviates the need for surgery.	avert, preclude, forestall, head off, help, prevent, stave off,
omnipresent		widely or constantly encountered; widespread.	1) the museum's omnipresent security apparatus   2) big-city crime dramas, with omnipresent gloom and seedy, nocturnal settings	ubiquitous, universal, wall-to-wall, rife, prevalent, predominant,
oust	The owl was stung and was forced out.	drive out or expel (someone) from a position or place.	The rebels ousted the dictator from power.	banish, topple, depose, overthrow, purge, bounce, cast out, chase, dismiss, drum (out), eject,
palpable		1. (of a feeling or atmosphere) so intense as to seem almost tangible.  2. able to be touched or felt.	1) palpable lymph nodes	perceptible, indisputable, appreciable, apprehensible, detectable, discernible, distinguishable, sensible,
perfidy	"From per- (ill-effect, as in ""pervert"") + fides (faith). The pervert who betrayed his faith was planning treacherous plan to defame the Church."	the state of being deceitful and untrustworthy.	They are guilty of perfidy.	treachery, deceit, treason, betrayal, infidelity, disloyalty, faithlessness, falseness, falsity, inconstancy, perfidiousness, unfaithfulness, untrustworthiness
profuse	To PROduce abundant energy from nuclear FUSion	(especially of something offered or discharged) very plentiful; abundant.	1) profuse in their thanks	copious, prolific, extravagant, lavish, galore, gushing, riotous,
pugnacious	pugn = fight; pugnacious = eager to fight	eager or quick to argue, quarrel, or fight.	1) There's one pugnacious member on the committee who won't agree to anything.	defiant, contenticous, truculent, aggressive, agonistic, argumentative, assaultive, bellicose, belligerent, brawly, chippy,
sagacious	Sage is sagacious	having or showing keen mental discernment and good judgement; wise or shrewd.	1) sagacious judge of character	discerning, insightful, perceptive, prudent, sage, sapient, wise, acute, astute, shrewd, prudent, sapient
sanguine		optimistic or positive, especially in an apparently bad or difficult situation.		optimistic, buoyant, hopeful, bullish, confident
scant		barely sufficient or adequate.	He paid scant attention to these wider issues	meagre, exiguous, deficit, hand-to-mouth, light, niggardly, poor, scanty, scarce,
skullduggery	In the skull of the dug grave, trickery was used to hide the treasure from grave robbers.	underhand, unscrupulous, or dishonest behaviour or activities.	There is no evidence to support any allegations of skulduggery.	trickery, swindling, chicanery,
trivial		of little value or importance.	1) a trivial objection   2) trivial problems	fiddling, foolish, frivolous, shallow, petty, trifling, incidental, inconsequential, inconsiderable, insignificant, little,
utilitarian		1. designed to be useful or practical rather than attractive.  2. relating to or adhering to the doctrine of utilitarianism.		useful, actionable, efficient, pragmatic, applicable, applicative, applied, functional, serviceable, ultrapractical,
vapid	If you're eating too rapidly, you may find the food bland	offering nothing that is stimulating or challenging; bland.	1) a gossipy, vapid woman, obsessed by her own elegance   2) London was not all vapid dissipation	insipid, feeble, boring, zestless, jejune, common, commonplace, ordinary, tepid, unexceptional, unsurprising, arid, boring,
boorish	The boar was rude and crude, charging through the party and causing a vulgar mess.	rough and bad-mannered; coarse.	they reproached him for his boorish behavior.	coarse, discourteous, churlish, classless, cloddish, clownish, loutish, uncouth,
brook	The brook (=stream) has to endure the flood.	to tolerate; to endure; to countenance	I brook no criticism from Matthew.	tolerate, endure, beck, bourn, brooklet, burn, creek, gill, rill, rivulet,
circumspect	cautious when inspecting the circumstance	wary and unwilling to take risks.	1) diplomacy required a circumspect response   2) They are circumspect in all their business dealings.	wary, discreet, vigilant, prudent, alert, careful, cautious, chary, conservative, considerate, gingerly, guarded,
comity	Establish a commitee to grow courtesy and harmony among employees	1. an association of nations for their mutual benefit. 2. courtesy and considerate behavior towards others.	group activities promoting comitybipartisan comity in the Senate	chime, compatibility, concord, harmony, peace,
commensurate	com + measure + ate = same measurement	corresponding in size or degree; in proportion.	She was finally given a job commensurate with her abilities	equivalent, commensurable, proportional, proportionate,
cordial		1. warm and friendly. 2. strongly felt.	The conversations were cordial and helped towards a better understanding of our mutual problems.	amicable, genial, affable, amiable, fervent, fervid, arent, bonhomous, buddy-buddy, chummy, collegial, companionable, comradely, friendly,
deleterious		causing harm or damage.	1) deleterious effects   2) deleterious to health	adverse, detrimental, inimical, pernicious, bad, baleful, baneful, damaging, dangerous, evil,
dichotomy		a division or contrast between two things that are or are represented as being opposed or entirely different.	1) the dichotomy between theory and practice	chasm, contrast, disjunction, polarity, antagonism, contradiction, incongruity, paradox,
edify	Edit it to improve it	instruct or improve (someone) morally or intellectually.	1) These books will both entertain and edify readers.	educate, instruct,  inculcate, enlighten, illume, illuminate, illumine, inspire, nurture,
elicit	evoke explicitly	evoke or draw out (a reaction, answer, or fact) from someone.	1) her remarks elicited cheers	obtain, induce, extort, educe, evoke, inspire, raise,
erudite	Every dude in the library is learned and knowledgeable.	having or showing great knowledge or learning.	1) an erudite scholar	sagacious, discering, donnish, cerebral, cultured, educated, knowledgeable, learned, lettered, literate, scholarly, well-read,
fecund	You fck a lot then you can produce many offsprings.	producing or capable of producing an abundance of offspring or new growth; highly fertile.	He dreamt about having a fecund future, however, he's struggling to make ends meet for himself, not to mention any children.	prolific, fructuous, cornucopian, fat, fertile, fructuous, fruitful, lush, luxuriant, productive,
feeble		1. lacking physical strength, especially as a result of age or illness.  2. lacking strength of character.  3. failing to convince or impress.	1) a feeble old man	implausible, debilitated, asthenic, timorous, delicate, down-and-out, effete, enervated, enfeebled, faint,
felicitous	When I'm lucky or in fortunate situations, I feel that felicity (happiness)	1. well chosen or suited to the circumstances.. 2. pleasing and fortunate.	1) a felicitous remark   2) handled the delicate matter in a most felicitous manner	1. apt, germane, pertinent, agreeable, blessed, congenial, darling, delectable, delightful, delightsome,  2. fortunate
forbear	It's difficult for the bear to refrain from attacking when being provoked.	politely or patiently restrain an impulse to do something; refrain.	The boy forebore from touching anything in fear of breaking them carelessly.	abjure, abstain (from), forgo, keep (from), refrain (from), withhold (from),
haphazard	hap (luck) + hazard. Perhaps the worst hazard for a room is disorganized and random items.	lacking any obvious principle of organization.	The kitchen drawers contained a haphazard collection of silver souvenir spoons.	aimless, arbitrary, indiscriminate, catch-as-catch-can, desultory, erratic, helter-skelter, hit-or-miss, random,
hodgepodge	A hotpot is a confused mixture of food	a confused mixture; a hotchpotch.	1) a hodgepodge of styles	mixed, medley, agglomerate, agglomeration, alphabet soup, assortment, botch, clutter, collage, crazy quilt,
impede		delay or prevent (someone or something) by obstructing them; hinder.	1) He claims that economic growth is being impeded by government regulations.   2) They were accused of impeding [=blocking, hindering] the administration of justice.   3) The soldiers could not impede the enemy's advance.	hinder, clog, cramp, embarrass, encumber, fetter, hamper, handcuff, handicap,
impetuous	The impatient pet u gave us goes impulsive without food	acting or done quickly and without thought or care.	He added that taking the car had been an impetuous and unplanned crimeShe was impetuous to the point of being reckless	impulsive, hasty, heedless, imprudent, reckless, precipitate, relentless, brash, brazen, daredevil, foolhardy, hotheaded,
irascible	irate + able = irritable	having or showing a tendency to be easily angered.	1) an irascible old football coach   2) He has an irascible disposition/temper.	dyspeptic, crotchety, choleric, crabby, cranky, cross, fiery, grouchy, grumpy,
mercenary		1. primarily concerned with making money at the expense of ethics. 2. a professional soldier hired to serve in a foreign army.		acquisitive, avaricious, avid, coveting, covetous, venal, grabby, grasping, greedy,
meticulous		showing great attention to detail; very careful and precise.	1) a meticulous researcher	careful, conscientious, diligent, scrupulous, punctilious, rigorous, fastidious, pedantic, fussy, loving, painstaking,
mordant	mortal ant can sometimes be biting	(especially of humor) having or showing a sharp or critical quality; biting.	He was good company, with a mordant sense of humour and a strong sense of duty.	acerbic, caustic, sardonic, scathing, pungent, acid, acidic, acidulous, acrid, barbed, biting,
outstrip		move faster than and overtake (someone else)./exceed	1) Their achievements far outstrip [=excel, surpass] our own.   2) The new hotel outstrips all other hotels in the area in size and luxury.   3) Demand continues to outstrip [=exceed] supply.	beat, better, eclipse, exceed, excel, outclass, outdistance, outdo,
precarious	The pretty car is unstable on the edge of the cliff, a very dangerous position.	not securely held or in position; dangerously likely to fall or collapse.	1) He earned a precarious livelihood/living by gambling.   2) She was in a state of precarious [=delicate] health.   3) The government is in a precarious position. [=a dangerous position that must be dealt with carefully]   4) The strong wind almost knocked him off of his precarious perch on the edge of the cliff.	dicey, insecure, treacherous, uncertain, dangerous, grave, grievous, hazardous, perilous, dubious,
quirky		having or characterized by peculiar or unexpected traits or aspects.	1) a quirky sense of humor   2) quirky ideas/behavior   3) a quirky and creative artist   4) … the SoHo store known for its modern, often quirky home accessories …   5) The result is an extraordinarily fine film, a quieter, more centered vision of Garp's world that loses little of the quirky humor of the original …	eccentric, idiosyncratic, peculiar, outlandish, bizarre, bizarro, cranky, crazy, curious, erratic, far-out,
repudiate	He refused the pudding as he already ate one; but he denied that fact, saying the pudding looked bad instead.	1. refuse to accept; reject. 2. deny the truth or validity of.	1) a generation that has repudiated the values of the past   2) He has publicly repudiated the government's policies.	abjure, rescind, nullify, abrogate, refute, contradict, deny, disaffirm, disallow, disavow, disclaim, disconfirm, disown,
tact		skill and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues.	1) The peace talks required great tact on the part of both leaders.   2) I was surprised by his lack of tact.	delicacy, prudence, discretion, diplomacy, subtlety, tactfulness,
trifling		unimportant or trivial.	We needn’t trouble the headmaster with such trifling matters.	trivial, petty, fiddling, foolish, frivolous, incidental, inconsequential, inconsiderable, insignificant, little,
turbulent		characterized by conflict, disorder, or confusion; not stable or calm.	Don't miss a tour of the Berlin Experience, which traces its turbulent historyHis plane encountered severe turbulence and winds of nearly two-hundred miles an hour.	tempestuous, unstable, anarchic, bang-bang, blood-and-guts, convulsive, cyclonic, explosive, ferocious, fierce, furious,
acumen		the ability to make good judgments and take quick decisions.	1) Her political acumen won her the election.   2) a lack of business/financial acumen	astuteness, shrewd, sagacity, discernment, ingenuity, caginess, canniness, clear-sightedness, foxiness, hardheadedness, intelligence, keenness,
antithesis		1. a person or thing that is the direct opposite of someone or something else.  2. (in Hegelian philosophy) the negation of the thesis as the second stage in the process of dialectical reasoning.	Her temperament is the very antithesis of mine.	contrast, antipode, contrary, counter, negative, obverse, opposite, reverse,
ascribe		regard something as being due to (a cause)./assign	1) These poems are usually ascribed to Homer.   2) They ascribe most of their success to good timing and good luck.   3) She ascribes no importance to having a lot of money.	accredit, attribute, chalk up, credit, impute, lay, put down,
befuddled	"Looks like ""be muddled."""	cause to become unable to think clearly.	1) … somebody may be so befuddled and self-destructive as to miss the point entirely.   2) … I also believe whites are as befuddled about race as we are …	muddled, addle, addled, bewildered, perplexed, dazed, stupefied, addlepated, bedeviled, befogged, bemused, bushed,
eschew	If someone ah-choo on your food, you definitely want to avoid that food.	deliberately avoid using; abstain from.	Although he eschewed hopes of politics and became a bill broker, his heart was not really in it.	renounce, abjure, reqlinquish, gainsay, repudiate, avoid, dodge, duck, elude, escape, evade, finesse, get around,
esoteric	eso=within. Within limited territory of knowledge	intended for or likely to be understood by only a small number of people with a specialized knowledge or interest.	The question is dominated by esoteric debate within that elitist audience.	abstruse, arcane, obscure, recondite, perplexing, enigmatic, deep, hermetic, profound, antonym: exoteric
evasive		tending to avoid commitment or self-revelation, especially by responding only indirectly.	Tech recruiters are notorious for evasive replies on job applications.They picked the missile up on the radar and had to take evasive action.	elusive, fugitive, equivocal, vague, cryptic, enigmatic, obscure, slippery,
exculpate	Ex-culprit has been cleared of the charges.	show or declare that (someone) is not guilty of wrongdoing.	The court exculpated him after a thorough investigation.	absolve, acquit, clear, exonerate, vindicate,
expedite		make (an action or process) happen sooner or be accomplished more quickly.	1) They've asked the judge to expedite the lawsuits.   2) We'll do what we can to expedite the processing of your insurance claim.	quicken, precipitate, ease, aid, dispatch, encourage, facilitate, accelerate, bundle, fast-track,
fastidious		very attentive to and concerned about accuracy and detail.	He chooses his words with fastidious care.	scrupulous, finicky, dainty, choosy, delicate, demanding, punctilious, meticulous, assiduous, exacting, finical, finicking
feign		pretend to be affected by (a feeling, state, or injury).	1) feign death	simulate, sham, masquerade, act, affect, assume, bluff, counterfeit, dissemble, fake, pass (for),
furtive		attempting to avoid notice or attention, typically because of guilt or a belief that discovery would lead to trouble; secretive.	1) a furtive glance   2) exchanged furtive smiles	surreptitious, wily, stealthy, oblique, skulking, shady, shifty, slippery, sly, sneaking, sneaky, stealthy,
hamper		1. hinder or impede the movement or progress of.  2. a basket with a carrying handle and a hinged lid, used for food, cutlery, and plates on a picnic.	Their work is hampered by lack of funds.	hinder, impede, inhibit, thwart, clog, cramp, embarrass, encumber, fetter, handcuff, handicap,
indispensable		absolutely necessary.	1) an indispensable member of the staff	critical, essential, vital, imperative, integral, requisite, obligatory, acute, must-have, necessary, necessitous,
lament	Her lunch fell into the cement mixer and she immediately felt regret and expressed her sorrow.	a passionate expression of grief or sorrow.a complaint	his mother's night-long laments for his fatherthere were constant laments about the conditions of employment.	wail, weep, requiem, mourn, bemoan, bewail, deplore, grieve (for), mourn,
myopic		1. short-sighted.  2. lacking foresight or intellectual insight.	1) It is likely the FDA will initially approve the procedure for severely myopic patients, though it is unclear what range of impaired vision will be included.   2) In some eyes, the lens does not become flat enough to bring far objects in focus, although it focuses near objects well; people with such eyes are said to be myopic (nearsighted).	nearsighted, shortsighted, unimaginative, unadventurous, insular, parochial
nonchalant		(of a person or manner) feeling or appearing casually calm and relaxed; not displaying anxiety, interest, or enthusiasm.	1) He was surprisingly nonchalant about winning the award.   2) She faced the crowd with the nonchalant ease of an experienced speaker.   3) The team may have been somewhat nonchalant at the beginning of the season, but they now know that they need to work hard.	apathetic, composed, casual, complacent, disinterested, incurious, indifferent, insensible, insouciant,
partial		1. existing only in part; incomplete. 2. favoring one side in a dispute above the other; biased.  3. having a liking for.		biased, one-sided, parti pris, partisan, prejudiced, skew, inequitable
pensive		engaged in, involving, or reflecting deep or serious thought.	1) a pensive young poet	broody, cogitative, contemplative, meditative, melancholy, ruminative, engrossed, solemn, musing, reflective, ruminant,
portend	You know where the port ends with the warning sign.	be a sign of warning that (something, especially something momentous or calamitous) is likely to happen.	1) The distant thunder portended a storm.   2) If you're superstitious, a black cat portends trouble.	augur, prophesy, bode, forebode, promise, call, forecast, foretell, predict,
provincial		1. of or concerning a province of a country or empire.  2. of or concerning the regions outside the capital city of a country, especially when regarded as unsophisticated or narrow-minded.		outlying, rustic, parochial, illiberal, insular, Lilliputian, little, narrow, narrow-minded, parochial, petty,
rudimentary		involving or limited to basic principles.	1) had only a rudimentary formal education	elementary, fundamental, vestigial, unsophisticated, crude, low, primitive, rude,
salutary	salubrious, but not just for health	(especially with reference to something unwelcome or unpleasant) producing good effects; beneficial.	Those incidents are a salutary reminder of the dedication of police officers.	advantageous, benefic, beneficent, beneficial, benignant, favorable, friendly, good, valuable, worthwhile, salubrious
sever		1. divide by cutting or slicing, especially suddenly and forcibly.  2. put an end to (a connection or relationship); break off.	1) He severed the lowest tree limbs.   2) His finger was severed in the accident.   3) a severed head/hand	break up, decouple, amputate, rupture, rend, disassociate, disconnect, disjoin, disjoint, dissever, dissociate,
slight		1. belittle; insult (someone) by treating or speaking of them without proper respect or attention.  2. small in degree; inconsiderable.  3. (of a person or their build) not sturdy; thin or slender.		insult, snub, repulse, spurn, disdain, scorn, derogatory delicate, modest, tiny, minute, scant, marginal, miniscule
somnolent	"somn is the root for ""sleep"""	sleepy; drowsy.	He was feeling decidedly somnolent after his lunch	dozy, drowsy, languorous, nodding, groggy, lethargic, enervated, sleepy, slumberous, tanquil, sluggish, calm
stoic		1. a person who can endure pain or hardship without showing their feelings or complaining.  2. a member of the ancient philosophical school of Stoicism.	A stoic philosopher is unmoved by the chaos around him and adversity.	ascetic, fatalist, impassive person, patient person, unfeeling person
supersede		take the place of (a person or thing previously in authority or use); supplant.	1) This edition supersedes the previous one.   2) Former stars were being superseded by younger actors.	cut out, displace, oust, overthrow, displant, relieve, replace, substitute, supplant,
tout		attempt to sell (something), typically by a direct or persistent approach. attempt to persuade people of the merits of (someone or something)	Jim was touting his wares. The headquarters facility was touted as the best in the country.	peddle, sell, hawk, vend, falunt, publicize, ballyhoo, blow up, crack up, cry up, glorify, trumpet, tub-thump,
wane		1. (of a state or feeling) decrease in vigor or extent; become weaker.  2. (of the moon) have a progressively smaller part of its visible surface illuminated, so that it appears to decrease in size.		abate, dwindle, de-escalate, slacken, shrink, diminish, recede, atrophy, decline, decrease, die (away or down or out), diminish, drain (away), drop (off),
abhor		regard with disgust and hatred.	1) abhorred violence	abominate, despise, disdain, detest, execrate, hate, loathe,
boisterous		1. noisy, energetic, and cheerful. 2. (of weather or water) wild or stormy.	1) A large and boisterous crowd attended the concert.   2) a boisterous drinking party   3) He had a big, boisterous [=hearty] laugh.	excited, vibrant, exuberant, ebullient, hell-raising, knockabout, rambunctious, raucous, robustious, roisterous, rollicking, rowdy,
chivalrous		1. (of a man or his behaviour) courteous and gallant, especially towards women.  2. relating to the historical concept of chivalry.	1) chivalrous warriors	courteous, gallant, gracious, urbane, gentle, valiant, big, elevated, great, greathearted, high, high-minded, lofty,
churlish	Looks like chur (church) + lish (childish). That man at the church was childish and surly towards visitors	rude in a mean-spirited and surly way.	It would be/seem churlish to refuse her invitation.	boorish, ungallant, surly, classless, cloddish, clownish, loutish, uncouth,
clandestine		kept secret or done secretively, especially because illicit.	1) a clandestine love affair	backstairs, covert, furtive, surreptitious, stealthy, concealed, behind-the-scenes, hole-and-corner, hugger-mugger, hush-hush, private,
complacent		showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements.	1) a complacent smile	smug, proud, gloating, gratified, lax, apathetic, casual, disinterested, incurious, indifferent, insensible, insouciant, nonchalant,
cumbersome		1. large or heavy and therefore difficult to carry or use; unwieldy.  2. slow or complicated and therefore inefficient.	1) a cumbersome package	awkward, bunglesome, clumsy, unwieldy, clunky, cranky, cumbrous, ponderous, ungainly,
debilitating	de + ability. Without ability, he became weakened	make (someone) very weak and infirm.	I have a debilitating fear of public speaking Several of these drugs are now in clinical testing to determine whether they can reduce or eliminate the debilitating nausea suffered by cancer patients on chemotherapy.	enfeebling, draining, enervating, exhausting, fatiguing, wearing, demoralizing, discouraging, devitalizing,
deliberate		done consciously and intentionally.		intentional, wilful,  predetermined, advised, calculated, considered, knowing, measured, reasoned, studied, thoughtful,
droll	Dan rolls with laughter even at that dry joke.	curious or unusual in a way that provokes dry amusement.	He has that unique brand of droll self-mockery.	humorous, antic, chucklesome, comedic, mirthful, zany, farcical, quirky, eccentric, preposterous, comic, comical, farcical, funny, hilarious,
eccentric		(of a person or their behavior) unconventional and slightly strange.		aberrant, queer, peculiar, capricious, bizarre, whimsical, bizarro, cranky, crazy, curious, erratic, far-out, funky,
fractious	You will be irritable when dealing with kids and fraction since they're difficult to manage.	(typically of children) irritable (easily annoyed) and quarrelsome. (of a group or organization) difficult to control; unruly.	They fight and squabble like fractious children.The National Olympic Committee has to hold its fractious members together.	grumpy, grouchy, crotchety, cantankerous, bad-tempered, peevish, disagreeable, pettish, irritable, irascible, tetchy, testy, curmudgeonlywayward, unruly, uncontrollable, unmanageable, obstreperous, headstrong, refractory, recalcitrant, intractable
limpid	The liquid is lucid	completely clear and transparent. (especially of writing or music) clear and accessible or melodious.	Her eyes are as clear as the limpid waters of the CaribbeanI appreciate the limpid clarity of his later novels.	clear, transparent, glassy, glasslike, crystal clear, crystalline, see-through, translucent, pellucid, unclouded, uncloudy comprehensible, articulate, lucid, coherent,
mawkish	Don't mock kids since they're sentimental and feeble	sentimental in a feeble or sickly way	a mawkish poemTheir interaction is really well handled and never mawkish.	sentimental, cloying, corny, sickly, drippy, fruity, gooey, lovey-dovey, maudlin, banal,
obeisance	I'm obeying the elderly due to respect	a gesture expressing deferential respect, such as a bow or curtsy.	After making his obeisances he approached the altar.	homage, respect, veneration, reverence, beck, bob, bow, curtsy, dop, nod,
ostentatious		characterized by pretentious or showy display; designed to impress.	an ostentatious display of wealth/knowledge The power of the government was present but it did not express itself in large and ostentatious buildings.	showy, pretentious, conspicuous, obtrusive, flamboyant, gaudy, garish, tinsel, tinselly, brash, vulgar, loud, extravagant, fancy, ornate, affected, theatrical, actorly, overdone, overelaborate, kitsch, tasteless
panacea		a solution or remedy for all difficulties or diseases.	The law will improve the lives of local farmers, but it is no panacea.	universal cure, cure-all, cure for all ills, universal remedy, nostrum, elixir, wonder drug, perfect solution, magic formula, magic bullet; rare catholicon, diacatholicon, panpharmacon.
perfunctory	The perfume factory staff just didn't care.	(of an action) carried out without real interest, feeling, or effort.	The guards gave a perfunctory look up and down the carriage, then quickly let them pass.	cursory, desultory, hasty, apathetic, casual, complacent, disinterested, incurious, indifferent, insensible, insouciant,
perilous		peril = danger, full of danger or risk.	1) a perilous journey	dangerous, grave, hazardous, treacherous, precarious, insecure, jeopardizing, menacing, parlous, risky,
pervasive		(especially of an unwelcome influence or physical effect) spreading widely throughout an area or a group of people.	1) a pervasive odor	pandemic, prevalent, rife, widespread, ubiquitous, extensive, common, general, majority, overall,
preclude		prevent from happening; make impossible.	She suffered an injury that precluded the possibility of an athletic career. His difficulties preclude him from leading a normal life.	avert, forestall, impede, forbid, head off, help, obviate, prevent, stave off,
predilection		a preference or special liking for something; a bias in favour of something.	1) a predilection for spicy food   2) The novel features a wonderfully spunky heroine with a smart mouth, a bad attitude and a predilection for trouble.	fondness, partial, penchant, procilivity, affection, affinity, aptitude, bent, bias, bone, devices, disposition,
rapacious	Looks like “rapper vicious.” The rapper became vicious because he was aggressively greedy for more money. From Latin rapere (to snatch).	aggressively greedy or grasping.	His rapacious hunger built as his fangs began their descent. But she appears to have been passionate, exceedingly rapacious and ever careful of her own interest.	avaricious, acquisitive, covteous, insatiable, voracious, edacious, esurient, gluttonous, greedy, hoggish, piggish, ravenous, swinish,
relish	Release the delicious sauce onto your food to enjoy every bite with genuine delight.	(v) enjoy greatly. (n) great enjoyment, liking for or pleasurable anticipation of something	He was relishing his moment of glory.I was appointed to a position for which I had little relish	zest, delight, rapture, gratification, exhilaration, appetite, fancy, favor, fondness, like, liking, love, love affair,
satirical		sarcastic, critical, and mocking another's weaknesses.		caricature, scorn, ridicule, derison, mockery, irony
sham	It’s a shame that the money is bogus	falsely present something as the truth.	Was he ill or was he shamming?He shams [=feigns] indifference	feint, artificial, bogus, dummy, ersatz, factitious, fake, false, faux,
skirt (v)		1. attempt to ignore; avoid dealing with.  2. go round or past the edge of.	1. The treaty skirted the question of political cooperation. 2. He did not go through the city but skirted it.	circumvent, dodge, evade, avoid, ignore, border, borderline, bound, boundary, brim, circumference, compass, confines,
sluggish		1. slow-moving or inactive.  2. lacking energy or alertness.	1) a sluggish lizard/stream   2) The game picked up after a sluggish start.	crawling, lethargic, inert, torpid, apathetic, weary, tired, fatigued, idle, creeping, dallying, dawdling, dilatory, dillydallying, dragging, laggard,
spartan		showing the indifference to comfort or luxury traditionally associated with ancient Spart	They are spartan but adequate rooms.	austere, frugal, rigorous, arduous, stern, ascetic, abstemious, no-frills, stark,
truculent	From Latin trux (=fierce). Trucks are the fierceful, defiant king of the road	eager or quick to argue or fight; aggressively defiant.	“What do you want?” he demanded, sounding truculent.	defiant, belligerent, hostile, obstreperous, aggressive, agonistic, argumentative, assaultive, bellicose, chippy, surly, rude
acrimonious	"From Latin acrimony + ous = acri-, acer- (bitter, as in ""acerbic"") + -monia (used to form abstract nouns, as in ""sanctimony, parsimony"") + ous (full of)."	(typically of speech or discussion) angry and bitter.	They had a heated and acrimonious dispute about wages.	rancorous, acerbic, scathing, mordant, acrid, trenchant, virulent, vicious, bitter, embittered, hard, resentful, sore,
belligerent	Be vigilant of the fights. It might turn to conflicts and wars.	hostile and aggressiveengaged in a war or conflict, as recognized by international law	He was drunk and belligerentAfter years of mass slaughter and hardship, opposition to the war became widespread in all the belligerent countries.	aggressive, agonistic, pugnacious, antagonistic, truculent, contentious, militant, argumentative, assaultive, bellicose, brawly, chippy, combative,
beneficent		(of a person) generous or doing good.	1) a beneficent policy	benevolent, charitable, altruistic, philanthropic, magnanimous, munificent, liberal, benignant, compassionate, good-hearted, humane, kind, kindhearted, kindly,
canny	Granny is shrewd in money and household matters.	having or showing shrewdness and good judgement, especially in money or business matters.	Canny shoppers came early for a bargain.	shrewd, discerning, acute, prudent, astute, clear-eyed, clear-sighted, hard-boiled, hardheaded, heady, knowing, savvy,
cavalier	The knights on horseback (cavalry) are offensively nonchalent towards other knights.	showing a lack of proper concern; offhand.a small spaniel of a breed with a long snout.	Anne was irritated by his cavalier attitude	offhand, casual, dismissive, isouciant, supercilious, arrogant, assumptive, bumptious, chesty, haughty, high-and-mighty, high-handed, high-hat,
distressed		1. suffering from extreme anxiety, sorrow, or pain. 2. (of furniture or clothing) having simulated marks of age and wear.	I was distressed at the news of his death.a distressed leather jacket.	grieve, agitated, torment, disturbed, perturbed, troubled, unsettled, restive, restless, uneasy,
dwindling		gradually diminishing in size, amount, or strength.		abating, decreasing, de-escalating, denting, depleting, diminishing, downscaling, downsizing,
eclipse	A solar eclipse was thought to be a decline of solar power by ancient civilizations	an obscuring of the light from one celestial body by the passage of another between it and the observer or between it and its source of illumination. a loss of significance or power in relation to another person or thing	Solar eclipse was a bad omen in ancient civilizations.In view of the continuing eclipse of his reputation, he should follow wise words of his manager.	blotting out, blocking, covering, obscuring, hiding, concealing, veiling, shrouding, darkening decline, fall, failure, decay, deterioration, degeneration, weakening, ebb, waning, withering,
encyclopedic	Encyclopedia is broad in scope of information	comprehensive in terms of information.	1) an encyclopedic mind   2) an encyclopedic collection of armor	comprehensive, thorough, exhaustive, all-embracing, all-in, all-inclusive, broad-gauge, compendious, complete, comprehensive, cover-all,
exacerbate		make (a problem, bad situation, or negative feeling) worse.	1) The new law only exacerbates the problem.	aggravate, complicate, worsen, intensify, compound
exasperated		intensely irritated and frustrated.	He let out an exasperated sigh Ricardo congratulated himself on having left his revolver behind. He was so exasperated that he didn't know what he might have done.	infuriated, incense, aggravated, annoyed, enraged, antagonized, bothered, galled, irked, irritated, narked, peeved,
fungible	NFT	(of a product or commodity) replaceable by another identical item; mutually interchangeable	Money is fungible—money that is raised for one purpose can easily be used for another.	commutable, exchangeable, interchangeable, substitutable, switchable,
hackneyed	You can no longer hack the net with that approach because it was overused	(of a phrase or idea) having been overused; unoriginal and trite.	He delivered a typical speech full of clichés and hackneyed phrases	platitudinous, vapid, conventional, banal, cliché, clichéd, cobwebby, commonplace, hack, hackney, moth-eaten,
incongruous	in + congruere: not agreeing with other aspects	not in harmony or keeping with the surroundings or other aspects of something.	The duffel coat looked incongruous with the black dress she wore underneath.	discordant, amiss, graceless, improper, inapposite, inappropriate, inapt, incorrect, indecorous,
interchangeable		1. apparently identical; very similar. 2. (of two things) able to be interchanged.	1) These words have similar meanings but they're not (freely) interchangeable (with each other).	commutable, exchangeable, fungible, identical, alike, homogeneous, commensurate, analogous, substitutable, switchable,
laconic		(of a person, speech, or style of writing) using very few words.	1) a laconic reply/response   2) a laconic manner/style   3) laconic humor   4) He had a reputation for being laconic.	brief, concise, succinct, incisive, compendious, aphoristic, apothegmatic, brief, capsule, compact, compendious, crisp,
lucrative		producing a great deal of profit.	1) a lucrative job/investment   2) a lucrative career/contract   3) The business has proved to be highly lucrative.	economic, fat, gainful, remunerative, bankable, flourishing, juicy, money-spinning, moneymaking, paying, profitable,
magisterial	The Majesty has great authority and appears domineering	having or showing great authoritydomineering; dictatorial.	He dropped his somewhat magisterial style of questioning to appear more friendly towards his citizens.	autocratic, imperious, overbearing, authoritative, peremptory, pompous, classic, classical, definitive,
onerous	oner + ous = burdensome	(of a task or responsibility) involving a great deal of effort, trouble, or difficulty.	He found his duties increasingly onerous.This is the most onerous task I've ever undertaken	oppressive, arduous, formidable, laborious, arduous, bitter, brutal, burdensome, cruel, excruciating, grievous, grim, hard,
opprobrium	From Latin ob- (against) + probrum (disgraceful act). The opponents use the problem–the disgrace between him and his daughter–to censure the politician.	harsh criticism or censure.the public disgrace arising from someone's shameful conduct	They're going ahead with the plan despite public opprobrium.The opprobrium of being closely associated with gangster	vilification, abuse, vituperation, condemnation, censure, castigation, denunciation, defamation, denigration, disparagement, obloquy, derogation, slander, revilement, calumny, execration, excoriation, lambasting disgrace, shame, dishonor, discredit, stigma, humiliation, ignominy, odium, obloquy, disfavor, disrepute, infamy, notoriety, scandal, stain
parsimonious		very unwilling to spend money or use resources.	The company is parsimonious with employee benefits. Even the parsimonious Joe paid for drinks all round	frugal, chintzy, close, closefisted, mean, mingy, miserly, niggard, penurious, stingy
peripheral	"From Greek peri- (around, like ""perimeter"") + phere (to bear)."	relating to or situated on the edge or periphery of something.of secondary or minor importance; marginal.	some of the city's peripheral housing projects. she will see their problems as peripheral to her own.	outermost, fringe, border, surroundingcircumferential, subsidiary, tangential, marginal, accessorial, appurtenant, auxiliary, supplementary,
provocative		causing anger or another strong reaction, especially deliberately.	He was making provocative remarks guaranteed to drive her into a fury.	annoying, exasperating, infuriating, maddening, charged, edgy, exciting, inciting, instigating, instigative, piquing, provoking,
renounce	Again (re), he announced that he gave up his religion to marry the Muslin girl.	formally declare one's abandonment of (a claim, right, or possession).reject and stop using or consuming	Edward renounced his claim to the French throne.  He renounced drugs and alcohol completely.	give up, relinquish, abandon, resign, abdicate, surrender, sign away, waive, forgo reject, refuse to abide by, refuse to recognize, repudiate
tempestuous	Their hot tempers to us make our relationship very turbulent and stormy	characterized by strong and turbulent or conflicting emotion.very stormy.	She's just a tempestuous teenager who threw tantrums at the drop of a hat. The fine weather had broken and the day was tempestuous.	turbulent, stormy, tumultuous, violent, wild, explosive, uncontrolled, unrestrained, feverish, hysterical, frenetic, frenzied, frantic stormy, blustery, squally, wild, turbulent, windy, gusty, blowy, rainy, thundery, rough, choppy
tenable		able to be maintained or defended against attack or objection.(of an office, position, scholarship, etc.) able to be held or used.	This politically convenient view is no longer tenable. [=defensible] The post is tenable for three years.	defensible, justifiable, sustainable, arguable, rational, plausible
transgression	trans + gress = step across (the rules)	an act that goes against a law, rule, or code of conduct; an offence.	They were granted full amnesty for their transgressions. Being a debutante and a marquis' daughter, her transgression of etiquette quickly became the talk of the town.	offense, crime, sin, wrongdoing, misdemeanor, felony, misdeed, vice, evil-doing, indiscretion, peccadillo, mischief, wickedness, misbehavior, disobedience, mischievousness
urbane		(of a person, especially a man) courteous and refined in manner.	the supposedly urbane, restrained English gentleman Urbane wit was the mark of taste and cultivation.	debonair, smooth, sophisticated, suave, svelte, elegant, cultured, civilized, glib, slick, refined, courteous affable, tactful
verisimilitude	very similar to realism	the appearance of being true or real.	1) The novel lacks verisimilitude. [=the things that happen in the novel do not seem real]	literalism, naturalism, realism, representationalism, verismo,
vitiate	The vitamin deficiency can impair your health and diminish your energy.	spoil or impair the quality or efficiency of.destroy or impair the legal validity of	Development programs have been vitiated by the rise in populationthe insurance is vitiated because of foolish acts on the part of the tenant.	blemish, darken, mar, poison, spoil, stain, taint, tarnish,
affinity		a natural liking for and understanding of someone or something.	She has a natural affinity with animals and birds.	affection, similitude, rapport, accord, empathy, aptitude, bent, bias, bone, devices, disposition, genius,
altruistic		showing a disinterested and selfless concern for the well-being of others; unselfish.		beneficent, benevolent, considerate, compassionate, noble, generoud, magnanimous, charitable, do-good, eleemosynary, good, humanitarian, philanthropic,
baroque		highly ornate and extravagant in style.		ornae, fancy, curlicued, ostentatious, devilish, excessive, exorbitant, extravagant, extreme, fancy, immoderate, inordinate,
byzantine	By the Zen master’s time, those riddles seemed intricate.	(of a system or situation) excessively complicated, and typically involving a great deal of administrative detail.	It is true that America's tax system is an abysmal and Byzantine mess.	complex, complicate, complicated, convoluted, daedal, elaborate, intricate,
compromise	com (mutual) + promise. The company’s promise was to find middle ground and not let the conflict weaken their employer-employee relationship.	to find a middle ground; to weaken or undermine	After hours of debate, they finally reached a compromise that satisfied both parties.	negotiate, weaken, undermine
conciliatory		intended or likely to placate or pacify.	speaking in a conciliatory tone He was self-assured, aggressive, combative, at times willing to offend and at times trying to sound conciliatory.	placatory, appeasing, pacifying, propitative, disarming, mollifying, pacific, pacifying, peacemaking, placating,
countenance		1. (v) admit as acceptable or possible.  2. (n) a person's face or facial expression.	He was reluctant to countenance the use of force.He had a strikingly handsome and sensitive countenance.	tolerate, permit, allow, admit of, put up with, endure, brook, stomach, swallow, bear cast, expression, appearance, aspect, face, look, visage,
covert		not openly acknowledged or displayed.	They carried out a covert rescue mission at night.	furtive, surreptitious, concealed, cloistered, hidden, isolated, quiet, remote, retired, secluded, secret,
credible		able to be believed; convincing.	1) a credible account of the accident   2) credible witnesses	reliable, dependable, tenable, plausible, believable, creditable, likely, plausible, presumptive, probable,
diffuse		1. (v, adj) spread out over a large area; not concentrated. 2. (adj) lacking clarity or conciseness.	These museums seek to diffuse knowledge about the natural world and natural processes.The second argument is more diffuse, it's hard to feel convincing at all.	scatter, disperse, disseminate, disperse, scatter, circuitous, circumlocutory, garrulous, logorrheic, long-winded, pleonastic, prolix, rambling,
documentary		1.consisting of or based on official documents.  2. using pictures or interviews with people involved in real events to provide a factual report on a particular subject.		documented, registerd, chronicled, animated cartoon, cartoon, docudrama, feature, featurette, short, short subject, film,
exhaustive		including or considering all elements or aspects; fully comprehensive.	1) conducted an exhaustive search	encyclopedic, extensive, profound, meticulous, all-out, clean, complete, comprehensive, full-scale, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing,
exhilarating		making one feel very happy, animated, or elated; thrilling.	1) an exhilarating experience   2) … an exhilarating ride that allows participants to catch an aerial view like they've never seen before.   3) … I would like to convey the sense of flight as it was almost at the very beginning of itself, when everything about it was miraculous and dangerous and exhilarating.   4) … an exhilarating career full of deals sealed at three-martini lunches.	elate, intoxicate, delight, invigorate, revitalize, breathtaking, charged, electric, electrifying, exciting, exhilarative, galvanic, galvanizing,
extraneous		1. irrelevant or unrelated to the subject being dealt with. 2. of external origin.	1) extraneous light	accidental, immaterial, inapposite, adventitious, alien, external, extrinsic, foreign, supervenient,
fervor		intense and passionate feeling.	1) booing and cheering with almost equal fervor   2) revolutionary fervor	ardency, ardour, emotion, zeal, vehemence, avidity, enthusiasm, fervency, fervidness, fire, heat,
futile		incapable of producing any useful result; pointless.	1) efforts to convince him were futile	vain, fruitless, thwarted, abortive, barren, bootless, empty, fruitless, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious,
illusory		based on illusion; not real.	The comfort these theories give is illusory.	deceptive, delusional, delusive, hallucinatory, sham, erroneous, phantasmagoric, surreal, chimerical, daydreamlike,
invidious	"Sounds like ""envied us."" Those who envied us in the office create envious gossip. Their comparing us and coworkers in another department is unjust."	(of an action or situation) likely to arouse or incur resentment or anger in others.(of a comparison or distinction) unfairly discriminating; unjust.	I didn't want to put her in an invidious position. It seems invidious to make special mention of one aspect of his work. Other aspects also make worthy contributions to its success.	awkward, unpleasant, covetous, envious, green-eyed, jaundiced, jealous, resentful,unjust, prejudicial, discriminatory, offensive, detrimental
lethargic		affected by lethargy; sluggish and apathetic.	1) The patient was weak and lethargic.	sluggish, torpid, languid, indolent, phlegmatic, dull, inactive, inert, quiescent, sleepy,
metaphorical		characteristic of or relating to metaphor; figurative.	Many of our metaphorical expressions develop from our perceptions of the body.	fugurative, analogous, allegorical, symbolic, emblematic
mimic		imitate (someone or their actions or words), especially in order to entertain or ridicule.		burlesque, caricature, parody, travesty, imitate, mock, send up, spoof,
numinous	numin/numen = divine, spirit	having a strong religious or spiritual quality; indicating or suggesting the presence of a divinity.	Her poetry is filled with a numinous beauty.	spiritual, religious, divine, magic, magical, mystic, occult, weird,
obscure (adj)		1. not discovered or known about; uncertain.  2. not clearly expressed or easily understood.	He was born about 1650, though his origins and parentage remain obscure. obscure references to Proust.	unclear, uncertain, unknown, doubtful, dubious, mysterious, hazy, vague, indeterminate, concealed, hiddenabstruse, recondite, arcane, esoteric, enigmatic, mystifying, puzzling, perplexing, baffling,
overt	From French ovrir (to open)	done or shown openly; plainly apparent.	They carried out both overt and covert military actionsIn untreated cases, overt psychosis may occur	undisguised, unconcealed, plain to see, plainly seen, plain, clear, apparent, conspicuous, unmistakable, obvious, noticeable, observable, visible, manifest
pellucid	per + lucid: thoroughly transparent or clear	translucently clear easily understood; lucid.	You shouldn't buy this pellucid piggy bank since others can clearly see your money.He writes, as always, in pellucid prose.	cogent, comprehensible, coherent, eloquent, clear, crystal, crystal clear, crystalline, limpid, liquid, lucent, see-through,
perpetuate		make (something, typically an undesirable situation or an unfounded belief) continue indefinitely	The law perpetuated the interests of the ruling class.	eternalize, immortalize, conserve, sustain, maintain, extend, commemorate
rational		based on or in accordance with reason or logic.		sensible, cogent, coherent, sagacious, prudent, shrewd, intelligent, reasonable, reasoning, thinking,
scathing		witheringly scornful; severely critical.	He unleashed a scathing attack on his former boss.	acerb, acerbic, fierce, severe, mordant, vitriolic, acid, acidic, acidulous, acrid, barbed, biting, mordant
subtle		1. (especially of a change or distinction) so delicate or precise as to be difficult to analyse or describe.  2. making use of clever and indirect methods to achieve something.	1) a subtle fragrance	artful, beguiling, astute, acute, cagey, crafty, cunning, cute, designing, devious,
superficial		1. existing or occurring at or on the surface.  2. appearing to be true or real only until examined more closely.  3. not thorough, deep, or complete; cursory.		skin-deep, surface, exterior, peripheral, apparent, specious, cursory, sketchy, desultory
acquiesce	"Looks like ac + quiesce ""agree quietly"""	accept something reluctantly but without protest.	They demanded it, and he acquiesced. She acquiesced in his decisions.	accede, tolerate, agree, assent, come round, consent, subscribe,
adroit	A droid (robot) did it! These droids are so skillful.	clever or skillful.	1) an adroit leader   2) adroit maneuvers	adept, dexterous, deft, agile, nimble, able, capable, proficient, artful, astute, bravura, deft, delicate, dexterous, expert, masterful, masterly,
amend		1. make minor changes to (a text, piece of legislation, etc.) in order to make it fairer or more accurate, or to reflect changing circumstances.  2. improve the texture or fertility of (soil).	1) The country's constitution was amended to allow women to vote.   2) They voted to amend the law in 1920.	adapt, modify, ameliorate, better, enhance, enrich, help, improve, meliorate, perfect,
animus	animosity	1. hostility or ill feeling. 2. motivation to do something.	1) She harbored an animus toward them   2) The reformist animus came from within the party.	animosity, antagonism, antipathy, hostility, aversion, acrimony, rancour, hatred, loathing, bad blood, bitterness, enmity, gall, grudge,
apologist		a person who offers an argument in defence of something controversial.	1) the film industry's apologists [=people who write and speak in support of the film industry]	defender, advocate, proponent, apostle, backer, campaigner
astringent	The string tied too tight makes her skin contract, the bitter sticky taped over her mouth, she was forced to hear harsh insults.	causing the contraction of skin cells and other body tissues.(of taste or smell) slightly acidic or bitter.sharp or severe in manner or style.	an astringent skin lotion. fresh blackcurrants have a rather astringent flavor.his subversive and astringent humor.	severe, sharp, stern, rough, austere, caustic, mordant, sardonic, scathing, incisive, sarcastic
collaborate		produced by or involving two or more parties working together.	1) An international team of scientists collaborated on the study.	integrate, band (together), concert, concur, conjoin, conspire, cooperate, join, league,
competent		having the necessary ability, knowledge, or skill to do something successfully.	1) a competent [=capable] teacher   2) She is a competent [=adequate] portrait painter but she excels with landscapes.	proficient, adept, adroit, able, capable, equal, fit, good, qualified, suitable,
correlate		have a mutual relationship or connection, in which one thing affects or depends on another.		analogize, complement, supplement,
deride	They ridicule my derived jokes for banality	express contempt for; ridicule.	Critics derided the proposals as clumsy attempts to find a solution.	ridicule, mock, disdain, pillory, scorn, gibe, jeer, laugh (at), mock, ridicule, scout, shoot down, skewer, scoff at
dictate		state or order authoritatively.say or read aloud (words to be typed, written down, or recorded on tape).	The tsar's attempts to dictate policyI have four letters to dictate	decree, command, ordain, promulgate, call, command, decree, direct, mandate, order,
discreet		careful and prudent in one's speech or actions, especially in order to keep something confidential or to avoid embarrassment.	"""Can you be discreet and keep this secret?"" She's looking good in black suit, styled hair and discreet (but still obvious) makeup."	careful, circumspect, wary, tactful, diplomatic, prudent, intelligent, judgmatic, judicious, prudent,
divorced		separate or dissociate (something) from something else, typically with an undesirable effect.		separated, alienate, dissever, marriageable, unpaired, fancy-free, footloose, single, unattached, unmarried,
elitist		relating to or supporting the view that a society or system should be led by an elite.		aristocratic, high-hat, persnickety, potty, ritzy, snobbish, snobby, snooty,
exacting		making great demands on one's skill, attention, or other resources.	1) an exacting process/teacher/task   2) He has very exacting standards/requirements.	choosy, demanding, onerous, arduous, laborious, fastidious, finical, finicking, finicky, dainty, delicate,
flummoxed		bewildered or perplexed.	"""Seems to know as much about the inside of my larders as I do myself!"" thought Mr. Baggins, who was feeling positively flummoxed…"	perplexed, addled, baffled, confound, bamboozled, beat, befogged, befuddled, bemused, bewildered,
fruitful		producing good or helpful results; productive.	1) fruitful soil	constructive, worthwhile, gainful, cornucopian, fat, fecund, fertile, fructuous, lush, luxuriant, productive,
inborn		existing from birth.	1) Humans have the inborn [=innate] ability to adapt.   2) She has an inborn talent for music.   3) That kind of knowledge is acquired, not inborn.	built-in, innate, congenital, inherent, connate, constitutional, constitutive, essential, hardwired, immanent, inbred, indigenous,
polymath		a person of wide knowledge or learning.	He was a polymath and was offered a history scholarship before opting for medicine	polyhistor, Renaissance man, Renaissance woman, brain, brainiac, genius, intellect, thinker,
reticent		not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily.	She was extremely reticent about her personal affairs.	taciturn, introverted, reserved, modest, close, closemouthed, dark, secretive, tight-mouthed, uncommunicative,
stringent	Strings must be drawn tight, to be strict and precise	(of regulations, requirements, or conditions) strict, precise, and exacting.	1) stringent training   2) stringent budgetary constraints	firm, rigid, rigorous, severe, exacting, draconian, brassbound, cast-iron, exacting, hard-line, inflexible, strict,
subservient	sub + servant	prepared to obey others unquestioningly.	She left her first husband because all he wanted was a subservient [=submissive] wife.	submissive, compliant, acquiescent, fawning, auxiliary, meek, docile, ductile, kowtowing, obeisant, obsequious, servile, slavish, subordinate, amenable,
surreptitious	Syrupy tissues were the secret evidence that he ate the syrup cakes.	kept secret, especially because it would not be approved of.	Rory tried to sneak a surreptitious glance at Adam's wristwatch.	clandestine, covert, furtive, stealthy, concealed, backstairs, behind-the-scenes, hole-and-corner, hugger-mugger, hush-hush,
tantalizing		tormenting or teasing with the sight or promise of something unobtainable.	She was tantalized by the possibility of earning a lot of money quickly.	enticing, tempting, tormenting, bait, lure, intrigue, allure, beguile, absorbing, arresting, engrossing, enthralling, galvanic, gripping,
tantamount	Tan to this amount is equivalent to sunburn.	equivalent in seriousness to; virtually the same as.	The resignations after the antisetimism scandals were tantamount to an admission of guilt.	virtual, akin, alike, analogous, cognate, comparable, connate, correspondent,
torpor		a state of physical or mental inactivity; lethargy.	He spent most of the long journey in a state of torpor.	apathy, dormancy, stagnant, lazy, indolence, fatigue, lassitude, casualness, complacence, disinterestedness, disregard, incuriosity, incuriousness, indifference,
trenchant	The trench was full of ants (trenchant) marching vigorously, expressing strong criticism.	vigorous or incisive in expression or style.	She heard angry voices, not loud, yet certainly trenchant.He made trenchant criticisms of her style of leadership.	incisive, penetrating, cutting, piercing, keen, acute, vigorous, blunt, mordant, pungent, caustic, edged, edgy, ground, honed, keen, sharp, sharpened,
umbrage	Umbrella (shadow) + rage. The umbrella felt raged. It was offended by what he said.	offence or annoyance	She took umbrage at his assumption that she must speak Hindi if she is Indian.	dudgeon, huff, miff, offense, peeve, pique, resentment,
versatile		able to adapt or be adapted to many different functions or activities.	1) She is a versatile athlete who participates in many different sports.	adaptable, flexible, resourceful, multi-purpose, all-around, protean, universal,
wayward		difficult to control or predict because of wilful or perverse behaviour.	1) a wayward child	balky, contrary, contumacious, defiant, disobedient, froward, incompliant, insubordinate,
alienate		make (someone) feel isolated or estranged.	He alienated most of his colleagues with his bad temper. Her position on this issue has alienated many former supporters.	estrange, isolated, sever, alien, disaffect, disgruntle, sour,
apathy	a + pathy = without feeling	lack of interest, enthusiasm, or concern.	He also signalled the need for politicians to combat public apathy by re-establishing trust.	phlegm, languor, lassitude, torpor, affectlessness, emotionlessness, impassiveness, impassivity, insensibility, numbness,
apropos	à propos ‘(with regard) to (this) purpose. || appropriate.	(prep) with reference to; concerning.(adj) very appropriate to a particular situation.	She remarked apropos of the initiative, “It's not going to stop the abuse.”The song feels apropos to a midnight jaunt.	applicable, pertinent, apt, apposite, germane, felicitous, material, pointed, relative, relevant,
apt	Apt students are likely to make fitting remarks and show how they are quick to learn.	appropriate or suitable in the circumstances. having a tendency to do something.quick to learn.	This is an apt place to celebrate the end of a great walk.Men left to themselves are apt to get a mite slipshod about meals He proved an apt learner on the job	suitable, fitting, appropriate, befitting, relevant, felicitous, congruous, fit, applicable, judicious, apposite, aproposinclined, likely, liable, disposed, predisposed, prone, ready, tending, subject,clever, quick, bright, sharp, quick to learn, smart, intelligent
cloak		1. a sleeveless outdoor overgarment that hangs loosely from the shoulders. 2. something serving to hide or disguise something.		cape, robe, mask, camoflauge, blanket, cope, cover, covering, coverture, cover-up, curtain, hood,
consensus		a general agreement.	1) the consensus of their opinion, based on reports … from the border	accord, agreement, concord, harmony, solidarity, concurrence, concurrency, unanimity, unison,
distort		1. pull or twist out of shape. 2. give a misleading or false account or impression of. 3. change the form of (an electrical signal or sound wave) during transmission, amplification, or other processing.	1) distorted the facts	twist, contort, deform, gnarled, crooked, bend, color, cook, falsify, fudge, garble, misinterpret, misrelate,
divergent		tending to be different or develop in different directions.	Varieties of English can remain astonishingly divergent from one another	disparate, contrasting, disproportionate, unequal, different, dissimilar, distant, distinct, distinctive,
elated		make (someone) ecstatically happy.	1) She was elated at/about/over the news.   2) She was elated to be chosen for the job. = She was elated that she was chosen for the job.	ecstatic, exhilarated, jubilant, rapturous, elevated, enrapt, enraptured, entranced, euphoric, giddy,
enchant		1. fill (someone) with great delight; charm. 2. put (someone or something) under a spell; bewitch.	1) The book has enchanted children for almost a century.   1) The beauty of the place enchants.	allure, beguile, bewitch, captivate, enthral, ensnare, charm, fascinate, kill, magnetize,
entrenched		(of an attitude, habit, or belief) firmly established and difficult or unlikely to change; ingrained.	Officials tended to cling to entrenched [=ingrained] beliefs.	established, firm, indelible, bred-in-the-bone, confirmed, deep, deep-rooted, deep-seated, hard-core, inveterate, rooted,
exotic		1. originating in or characteristic of a distant foreign country. 2. attractive or striking because colourful or out of the ordinary.		foreign, alien, imported, striking, colorful, unusual, bizarre, extravagant, outlandish, peculiar, fantastic, glamorous, marvelous, outlandish, romantic, strange,
exploitative		making use of a situation or treating others unfairly in order to gain an advantage or benefit.		abuse, manipulate, swindle, fleece
foreseeable		able to be foreseen or predicted.	1) foreseeable problems   2) foreseeable consequences	certain, destined, expected, fixed, foreordained, foreseen, inevitable, predestined,
forsake	For the sake of the communal welfare, he gave up his inheritance for donation.	abandon or leaverenounce or give up (something valued or pleasant)	She forsook her child, giving him up for adoption I won't forsake my vegetarian principles.	abandon, desert, leave, shunned, jilted, desolate, solitary, maroon, quit, strand,
gratify	give someone gratitude (=please) + satisfy	give (someone) pleasure or satisfactionindulge or satisfy (a desire)	It gratified him to have his wife wear jewels Not all the sexual impulses can be gratified.	please, gladden, give pleasure to, delight,  satisfy, gladden, thrill, appease, relieve, satiate, pacify, cater (to), humor, indulge,
heed		pay attention to; take notice of.		advertence, advertency, attention, awareness, cognizance, consciousness, ear, eye,
judicious	with good judgment	having, showing, or done with good judgement or sense.	The judicious use of public investment was welcomed by many	discreet, intelligent, judgmatic, prudent, shrewd, astute, canny, sagacious, perceptive, discerning, rational
lucid		expressed clearly; easy to understand.	1) a lucid explanation   2) lucid prose	comprehensible, cogent, coherent, articulate, beaming, bedazzling, bright, brilliant, candescent, clear, dazzling, effulgent,
pertinent		relevant or applicable to a particular matter; apposite.	1) a pertinent question   2) His comments weren't pertinent (to the discussion).	relevant, germane, apt, appropos, applicable, apposite, apropos, germane, material, pointed, relative,
propriety		1. conformity to conventionally accepted standards of behavior or morals. 2. the condition of being right, appropriate, or fitting.	1) She acted with propriety.   2) He went beyond the bounds of propriety. [=he acted improperly]   3) She conducted herself with propriety.	decorum, courtesy, rectitude, modesty, sobriety, etiquette, probity, decency, form,
scintillating	Scene till late evening brightens with sparkling fireworks engineered briliantly	sparkling or shining brightly.brilliantly and excitingly clever or skilful.	A scintillating sunDespite the first disappointing match, the team delivered a scintillating performance for the second match.	agleam, aglitter, twinkling, dazzline, blinding, coruscant, flaring, flashing, flickering, gemmy,
sensational		causing great public interest and excitement.	1) a particularly sensational trial/crime   2) sensational headlines   3) sensational news stories	startling, astonishing, appalling, horryfying, thrliing, significant, catchpenny, gee-whiz, lurid, screaming, sensationalist, sensationalistic,
sophisticated		1. having, revealing, or involving a great deal of worldly experience and knowledge of fashion and culture.  2. (of a machine, system, or technique) developed to a high degree of complexity.		cosmopolitan, smart, worldly, worldly-wise, advanced, trailblazing, revolutionary, futuristic
strife		angry or bitter disagreement over fundamental issues; conflict.	1) political strife	conflict, disaccord, discord, dissension, bickering, contention, animosity, discordance, discordancy, disharmony, dissension, dissent,
understated	stated below/subtly	presented or expressed in a subtle and effective way.	understated elegance	lessen, trivialize, diminish, conservative, low-key, muted, quiet, repressed, restrained, sober, subdued,
unscrupulous	un + scrupulous: unethical	having or showing no moral principles; not honest or fair.	Counterfeit documents make it easier for unscrupulous employers to knowingly hire illegal workers.	unethical, cutthroat, shameless, reprobate, deceitful, fardudulent, sly, immoral, Machiavellian, unconscionable, unethical, unprincipled,
veracity	Very accurate story is only possible with the truthfulness in every details.	conformity to facts; accuracy./habitual truthfulness.	We questioned the veracity of his statements.	honesty, integrity, probity, truthfulness, verity,
virulent	This virus is harmful and hostile against our bodies	1. (of a disease or poison) extremely severe or harmful in its effects.  2. bitterly hostile.	1) a virulent infection	toxic, poisonous, venomous, lethal, mortal, baneful, vitriolic, bad, bitchy, catty, cruel, despiteful, hateful, malevolent, malicious,
volatile	Volume of magma in the vile easily evaporated puddle of unpredictable liquid	1. (of a substance) easily evaporated at normal temperatures. 2. liable to change rapidly and unpredictably, especially for the worse.		capricious, turbulent, protean, erratic, changeable, changeful, fickle, flickery, fluctuating, fluid, inconsistent, evaporative, eruptive,
antedate	ante = before	precede in time; come before (something) in date.	Dinosaurs antedated the first human beings by almost 65 million years	antecede, forego, precede, predate, preexist,
banish		1. send (someone) away from a country or place as an official punishment.  2. get rid of (something unwanted).	1) a dictator who banishes anyone who opposes him	deport, extradite, repatriate, oust, dissipate, displace, exile, expatriate, relegate, transport,
bridle		1. show one's resentment or anger, especially by throwing up one's head and drawing in one's chin.  2. put a bridle on (a horse).	Aware that he possessed a temper and other foibles, he sought to correct his mistakes and bridle his anger	check, constrain, contain, control, curb, govern, hold, inhibit,
comply		act in accordance with a wish or command.	1) comply with federal law   2) the devices comply with industry standards	accede, accept, acquiesce, consent, defer, subscribe, agree, assent,
crestfallen		sad and disappointed.	1) After losing its last game, the team was crestfallen. [=dejected, depressed]   2) my crestfallen [=downcast] teammates	desolate, gloomy, bad, blue, brokenhearted, cast down, dejected, depressed, despondent, disconsolate,
curtail	cut tail	reduce in extent or quantity; impose a restriction on.	1) curtail the power of the executive branch   2) curtail inflation   3) Some school activities are being curtailed due to a lack of funds.	abbreviate, abridge, diminish, cut back, dock, elide, shorten, syncopate, truncate,
elucidate	e + lucid (clear) + ate (make)	make (something) clear; explain.	Reading more similar works will help to elucidate this matter	clarify, interpret, explicate, clear (up), construe, demonstrate, demystify, explain, explicate, expound,
evade		escape or avoid (someone or something), especially by guile or trickery.	The criminals have so far managed to evade the police. His criminal activities somehow evaded detection.	avoid, dodge, duck, ditch, elude, escape, eschew, finesse, get around,
feckless	fake + useless	lacking initiative or strength of character; irresponsible.	She can't rely on her feckless son.	useless, worthless, incompetent, inept, indolent, apathetic, counterproductive, hamstrung, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, inefficient, inexpedient,
fester		1. (of a wound or sore) become septic; suppurate.  2. (of a negative feeling or a problem) become worse or more intense, especially through long-term neglect or indifference.	I developed a tropical sore that festered badly. His feelings of resentment have festered for years.	suppurate, rot, decay, deteriorate, boil, hickey, papule, pimple, pock, pustule, whelk, zit,
iconoclastic	I can't inherit those clashing ideas. Their ideas are questioning at best and irreverent at worst.	criticizing or attacking cherished beliefs or institutions.	They soon discover that they are not living their life; their speciality is living them, and the result is an iconoclastic insanity.	critical, skeptical, questioning; heretical, irreverent, nonconformist, dissident, dissenting, dissentient; malcontent, rebellious, subversive, renegade, mutinous; maverick, original, innovative, groundbreaking
immure	Immature students are confined in the detention room for a week.	enclose or confine (someone) against their will.	Immured in a tiny apartment, he tries to hit on a subject for his next novel	confine, incarcerate, imprison, detain, box (in), cage, closet, coop (up), corral, encage, encase, enclose,
improvise		1. create and perform (music, drama, or verse) spontaneously or without preparation.  2. produce or make (something) from whatever is available.	1) If you forget any of your lines, try to improvise.   2) Good jazz musicians know how to improvise.   1) He had to improvise his opening speech when he forgot his notes.   2) The trumpet player performed an improvised solo.	impromptu, extemporize, fake, unrehearsed, unscripted, spontaneous
inhibit		hinder, restrain, or prevent (an action or process). make (someone) self-conscious and unable to act in a relaxed and natural way. (in ecclesiastical law) forbid (a member of the clergy) to exercise clerical functions.	You shouldn't allow fear of failure to inhibit you. He was inhibited by modesty. Fear can inhibit people from expressing their opinions.	impede, hamper, clog, curb, restrain, bridle, shackle, cramp, embarrass, encumber, fetter, hamper, handcuff, handicap,
inscrutable	When putting in the screws of the table, he realised the instructions were impossible to understand.	impossible to understand or interpret.	1) an inscrutable smile   2) inscrutable motives	arcane, cryptic, deep, enigmatic, abstruse, obscure, impenetrable, mysterious, mystic, occult,
lionize	Lion lovers admire the majestic creatures, celebrating them like royalty	give a lot of public attention and approval to (someone); treat as a celebrity.	She was lionized everywhere after her novel won the Pulitzer Prize.	apotheosize, fetem glorify, exalt, canonize, dignify, magnify, adore, deify, glorify, idolize, reverence
monotonous		dull, tedious, and repetitious; lacking in variety and interest.		tedious, wearisome, tiresome, prosaic, plodding, arid, boring, colorless, drab, dreary, drudging, dry, dull,
peculiar		1. different to what is normal or expected; strange.  2. particular; special.		aberrant, aberrated, bizarre, atypical, abnormal, anomalous, atypical, especial, exceeding, exceptional,
premeditate	pre + meditate = plan before	think out or plan (an action, especially a crime) beforehand.	Apparently he did not premeditate her murder.	deliberate, conscious, contemplate, meditate, aim, figure, have on, intend, mean, draft,
profligate	"Looks like ""pro-fly-gate."" Professional salesman fly to the gate to greet the spendthrifts who would fill their pockets."	1. recklessly extravagant or wasteful in the use of resources.  2. licentious / promiscuous; dissolute.	She is well-known for her profligate spending habits	extravagant, wasteful, spendthrift, high-rolling, prodigal, squandering, thriftless, unthrifty, wasteful, dissolute, dissipated, reprobate
reconcile		1. restore friendly relations between.  2. make (one account) consistent with another, especially by allowing for transactions begun but not yet completed.	1) reconciled the factions	placate, accommodate, attune, conciliate, conform, coordinate, harmonize, key,
refine		remove impurities or unwanted elements from (a substance), typically as part of an industrial process.	1) refine oil/sugar	ameliorate, amend, better, enhance, enrich, help, improve, meliorate, distil, cleanse, rectify
relinquish		voluntarily cease to keep or claim; give up.	1) I will not relinquish my rights.   2) She was forced to relinquish control of the project.   3) The court ordered him to relinquish custody of his child.	renounce, cede, cough up, deliver, give up, hand over, lay down, render, surrender, abdicate, forsake, eschew
ruminate	Before your diagrams help illuminate the topic, I spent so much time mulling over it.	1. think deeply about something.  2. (of a ruminant) chew the cud.	1) The question got us ruminating on the real value of wealth.   2) He ruminated over/about the implications of their decision.	think about, contemplate, consider, mull over, meditate on, muse on, ponder on/over, deliberate about/on, cogitate about/on, dwell on, brood on/over, agonize over, worry about, chew over, puzzle over
skittish	skit + ish. A good skit should be playful and nervously unpredictable, making you fidgety for the next twist	(of a person) playfully frivolous or unpredictable. (of an animal, especially a horse) nervous or excitable; easily scared.	Ripley had been traveling the world ever since moving to New York as a skittish newspaper reporter. The birds are skittish and will take flight when disturbed	playful, lively, high-spirited, frisky, coltish; flirtatious, kittenish, coquettish, flirty restive, excitable, nervous, easily frightened; skittery, jumpy, fidgety, highly strung
superfluous		unnecessary, especially through being more than enough.	1) a superfluous word/detail   2) Further discussion seemed superfluous.	surplus, excess, extra, redundant, undue, expendable, disposable, gratuitous, spare, supererogatory, supernumerary, surplus,
synoptic		taking or involving a comprehensive mental view.	1) Just one sentence gives us a synoptic view of the contents. 2) a plot synopsis	definition, common view
thorough		complete with regard to every detail; not superficial or partial.		rigorous, exhaustive, detailed, assiduous, meticulous, absolute, all-out, arrant, blank, blooming, bodacious, categorical, clean,
visionary		1. thinking about or planning the future with imagination or wisdom.  2. relating to or having the ability to see visions in a dream or trance, or as a supernatural apparition.		idealist, quixotic, insightful, ingenious, perceptive, shrewd, romantic, starry, starry-eyed, utopian,
vociferous	voice + furious = loud and forceful	(especially of a person or speech) vehement or clamorous	No one was more vociferous in condemning it than Mr Walker. Local activist groups have become increasingly vociferous as the volume of traffic passing through the village has increased.	vehement, blatant, caterwauling, clamant, clamorous, obstreperous, squawking, earnest,
acclaim		praise enthusiastically and publicly.		commend, accolade, eulogize, lionize, exalt, glorify, applause, bay(s), credit, distinction, glory, homage, honor,
ascertain		find (something) out for certain; make sure of.	1) ascertain the truth   2) trying to ascertain the cause of the fire   3) information that can be easily ascertained on the Internet	discover, establish, determine, settle, intuit, discern, find out, get on (to), hear, learn, realize, see,
assertive		having or showing a confident and forceful personality.	1) an assertive leader	aggressive, ambitious, decisive, enterprising, fierce, go-getting, high-pressure, in-your-face, militant,
bogus	Look like bug us. Fake items bug us so much	not genuine or true (used in a disapproving manner when deception has been attempted).	1) a bogus claim   2) The evidence was completely bogus.	spurious, feigned, artificial, dummy, ersatz, factitious, fake, false, faux, imitation,
cataclysmic	The cat caused a catastrophe, making the living room disastrous	(of a natural event) large-scale and violent.	Some events may have small consequences, while others are nearly cataclysmic in their impact.	disastrous, catastrophic, devastating, awful
circumscribe	From Latin circum (around) + scribere (write). The scribe only writes around a topic the topic without ever fully addressing it, as if she's limited by some higher power.	restrict (something) within limits.	His role was carefully circumscribedTheir movements were strictly monitored and circumscribed.	cap, confine, bound, restrain, regulate, hold down, limit, restrict,
complementary		combining in such a way as to enhance or emphasize the qualities of each other or another.	1) … their economies are more complementary than competitive …	correlative, reciprocal, harmonious, compatible, matching, supplemental, supplementary,
contentious	Which content is considered malicious is still controversial	causing or likely to cause an argument; controversial.	He was, and remains, a contentious figure, accused by some of scheming and power-mongering.	controversial, moot, disputed, equivocal, vehement, aggressive, agonistic, argumentative, assaultive, bellicose, belligerent, brawly, chippy,
disingenuous	dis (not) + ingenuous (innocent)	not candid or sincere, typically by pretending that one knows less about something than one really does.	1) Her recent expressions of concern are self-serving and disingenuous.   2) a disingenuous response	deceitful, devious, artful, mendacious, cunning, wily, sly, dishonest, false, untruthful, affected, assumed, claptrap,
divulge	Divide my vault is no different than revealing my secrets.	make known (private or sensitive information).	1) refused to divulge the name of her informant   2) divulge the company's sales figures	bare, disclose, proclaim, promulgate, declare, discover, expose, let on (about), reveal, spill, tell,
dogmatic	Trying to convert your own dogma (=principles) to universal doctrine is opinionated.	inclined to lay down principles as undeniably true./opinionated	1) a dogmatic critic	doctrinaire, opinionated, assertive, imperative, insistent, imperious, opinionative, opinioned, pontifical, self-opinionated,
fallacious		based on a mistaken belief.	1) a fallacious conclusion   2) a fallacious argument	erroneous, illegitimate, illogical, delusional, deceptive, specious, inconsequent, inconsequential, invalid, irrational, nonrational, unreasonable,
foolhardy	Those fools riding a motorbike without a helmet are recklessly daring and rash	recklessly bold or rash.	1) a foolhardy explorer   2) foolhardy investors	reckless, careless, audacious, unheeding, imprudent, brash, daredevil, madcap, overbold, overconfident, reckless, temerarious,
hinder		make it difficult for (someone) to do something or for (something) to happen.		hamper, inhibit, impede, aft, after, back, hind, hindmost, posterior, rear, rearward,
impair		weaken or damage (something, especially a faculty or function).	1) It has been known for nearly 100 years that memory is impaired by bilateral damage to either of two brain regions …   2) The use of drugs further complicates the situation of these families and sometimes impairs their ability to raise children.   3) … the prospect of generating normal profitability is impaired by excessive debt service.   4) The physician also checks for signs of endometriosis, a condition in which the cells that normally compose the uterine lining grow outside the uterus, sometimes impairing fertility.	blemish, damaged, vitiate, blunt, bloody, break, compromise, crab, cripple, cross (up), damage,
impugn	im + pugn(acious): make + fight. In that pugnacious debate, he challenged her integrity with fierce arguments.	dispute the truth, validity, or honesty of (a statement or motive); call into question.	He could no longer work as a doctor because his reputation had been impugned.A sense of honour impugned, or humiliation suffered, could and very often did lead to violence	blame, challenge, castigate, censure, impeach, condemn, criticize, damn, denounce,
incessant		(of something regarded as unpleasant) continuing without pause or interruption.	Farmers have to postpone planting whenever the monsoon is delayed or there is incessant rain during the recommended planting period.	ceaseless, continual, constant, nonstop, perpetual, interminable, everlasting, eternal, relentless, persistent, running,
inclined		1. be favorably disposed towards or willing to do something.  2. have a tendency to do something.  3. lean or turn away from a given plane or direction, especially the vertical or horizontal.	1) people who are inclined toward volunteering   2) Feel free to leave early if you're {phrase}so inclined{/phrase}. [=if you want to]	amenable, disposed, slope, slant, bank, deviate, fain, game, glad, minded, ready, willing,
inveterate	in + veter(an) = made old. Old habits are ingrained	having a particular habit, activity, or interest that is long-established and unlikely to change.	He was an inveterate gambler, and that didn't easily change until his family bankrunptcy.	ingrained, congential, chronic, steadfast, hooked, staunch, devoted, thorough, confirmed, deep, deep-rooted, deep-seated, entrenched, hard-core, rooted,
miserly	miserable stinginess	1. of or characteristic of a miser.  2. (of a quantity) pitiably small or inadequate.	The team's miserly owner refused to pay for new equipment.The prize for the winner will be a miserly £100	arsimonious, close-fisted; penny-pinching, grasping, greedy, avariciousmeager, inadequate, paltry, limited, insufficient, deficient, negligible, insubstantial, skimpy, miserable
patent		a government authority or licence conferring a right or title for a set period, especially the sole right to exclude others from making, using, or selling an invention.easily recognizable; obvious.	I hold the patent on the process She was smiling with patent insincerity	permit, copyright, brand, emblem, evident, apparent, obvious, distinct, conspicuous
petulant	The pet u lent me was always sulky, often whining when not treated well.	(of a person or their manner) childishly sulky or bad-tempered.	1) a petulant child   2) Her tone was petulant and angry.	peevish, sulky, fractious, crotchety, choleric, crabby, cranky, cross, crotchety, fiery, grouchy, grumpy,
pithy	pi + theta are expressive, succinct symbols	(of language or style) terse and vigorously expressive. pith = essense of something.	Her reply was pithy and to the point And I'm not going to end with a pithy summary.	succinct, concice, expressive, sententious, meaningful, aphoristic, apothegmatic, brief, capsule, compact, compendious, concise, crisp,
pliant	comPLIANT	1. easily bent.  2. easily influenced or directed; yielding.	These toys are made of pliant rubber, so they won't break.Children shouldn't be disobedient but not pliant either.	compliant, docile, tractable, malleable, receptive, bendy, flexible, limber, lissome, lithe, lithesome, pliable, supple,
sanctimonious	From sanctus- (“holy”) + -monia (“action or result of an action”). They think they’re holier than us because he has more money.	making a show of being morally superior to other people.	Sanctimonious religious leaders are preaching about morality thinking their ideas triumph over anyone else's.	canting, goody-goody, holier-than-thou, churchy, pious, moralistic, pharisaical, rectitudinous, self-righteous,
sound		1. vibrations that travel through the air or another medium and can be heard when they reach a person's or animal's ear.  2. an idea or impression conveyed by words.  3. in good condition; not damaged, injured, or diseased.
tarnish		1. damage or harm done to something.  2. dullness of color; loss of brightness.		blemish, darken, besmirch, taint, defame, caluminate, mar, poison, spoil, stain, touch,
tepid	When you dip your finger in the tea, it feels lukewarm and unexciting	1. (especially of a liquid) only slightly warm; lukewarm.  2. showing little enthusiasm.	The bathwater was tepid so I added more hot water	halfhearted, lukewarm, uneager, unenthusiastic, apathetic, desultory
upbraid	She'd scold you if she pull her braid up.	find fault with (someone); scold.	She upbraided him for not offering to help his grandfather.	baste, bawl out, berate, call down, castigate, chastise, reprimand, chew out, dress down,
vexation	vex (to annoy) + ate + ion	the state of being annoyed, frustrated, or worried.	He grumbled in vexation.	aggravation, annoyance, bedevilment, rage, pique, botheration, bothering, bugging, disturbance, harassment,
abet		encourage or assist (someone) to do something wrong, in particular to commit a crime.	1) abet the commission of a crime	brew, ferment, foment, incite, instigate, pick, provoke, raise,
accessible		1. (of a place) able to be reached or entered.  2. (of a person, especially one in a position of authority) friendly and easy to talk to; approachable.	1) a remote region accessible by rail	affordable, reachable, available, available, comprehensible, friendly, obliging, congenial, cordial, affable
acquisitive	keen to acquire	excessively interested in acquiring money or material things.	Our increasingly competitive and acquisitive [=greedy] society	avaricious, avid, coveting, covetous, grabby, grasping, greedy, mercenary,
amalgamate	amalgam + ate	combine or unite to form one organization or structure.	They're amalgamating different styles of music They amalgamated the hospital with the university.	blend, combine, coalesce, integrate, comingle, commingle, commix, composite, concrete, conflate,
attenuate	From Latin ad- (to) + tenure (thin) + ate, meaning “make thin.” If at ten u ate only once, your attention will be weakened.	reduce the force, effect, or value of.	This research provides a glimmer of hope that coral reefs can attenuate the effects of ocean acidification.	break, cheapen, depreciate, diminished, depress, devaluate, devalue, downgrade, lower,
augment		make (something) greater by adding to it; increase.		enlarge, expand, extend, supplement, amplify, reinforce, accelerate, add (to), aggrandize, amplify, boost, build up, compound, enlarge,
aversion	I avert their eyes because I dislike them.	a strong dislike or disinclination.	regards drunkenness with aversion	abhorrance, detestation, loathing, disgust, antipathy, disgust, revulsion, distaste, horror, loathing, nausea, repugnance, repulsion,
blithe	The blissful bird chirps cheerfully, embodying a carefree and happy spirit as it flits through the trees.	(adj) showing a casual and cheerful indifference considered to be callous or improper.	A blithe disregard for the rights of othersThey seem to be blithe about the issues	casual, careless, nonchalant, blithesome, bright, buoyant, canty, cheerful, cheery, chipper, eupeptic,
contempt		the feeling that a person or a thing is worthless or beneath consideration.	1) glared at him in contempt	scorn, opprobrium, disgust, loathing, contemptuousness, despisement, despite, despitefulness, disdain, misprision,
dawdle	Sounds like doodle. I linger on my doodles a long time after returning from a riverside amble.	waste time; be slow.	She mustn't dawdle—she had to make the call now	linger, crawl, creep, dally, delay, diddle, dillydally, drag, lag,
deflect		1. cause (something) to change direction; turn aside from a straight course.  2. cause (someone) to deviate from an intended purpose.	1) armor that deflects bullets   2) deflecting attention from the troubled economy   3) deflect a question	divert, avert, diverge, swerve, redirect, swing, turn, veer, wheel, whip,
discount	Do not count it since it's insignificant	deduct an amount from (the usual price of something). regard (a possibility or fact) as being unworthy of consideration because it lacks credibility.	Current users qualify for a discounted price. I would not discount the possibility of that at all	concession, rebate, abatement, deduction, reduction, disregard, overlook, dismiss
dissident	Disagreeing resident often becomes a rebel who opposes the established order and seeks change.	a person who opposes official policy, especially that of an authoritarian state.	1) dissident elements in the armed forces	protestor, rebel, mutineer, disruptor, dissentient, dissenting, heretical, heterodox, iconoclastic, maverick, nonconformist, nonorthodox,
efficacious	efficacy + ous = effective.	(of something inanimate or abstract) successful in producing a desired or intended result; effective.	The vaccine has proved both efficacious and safe.	effective, effectual, efficient, fruitful, operative, potent, productive, beneficial,
equitable		fair and impartial.	1) an equitable settlement of the dispute	candid, disinterested, unbiased, scrupulous, dispassionate, equal, evenhanded, fair, impartial, indifferent,
erratic	Errors can be very unpredictable	not even or regular in pattern or movement; unpredictable.	The teacher's erratic moods have a bad effect on the children	unpredictable, inconsistent, variable, vacillating, mutable, wavering, aimless, arbitrary, catch-as-catch-can, desultory, haphazard, helter-skelter, hit-or-miss, random,
industrious		diligent and hard-working.	1) an industrious worker	active, assiduous, bustling, diligent, pertinacious, tireless, studious, employed, engaged, hopping,
inform		1. give (someone) facts or information; tell.  2. give an essential or formative principle or quality to.	1) inform a prisoner of his rights	notify, advise, enlighten, infuse, animate
irksome		irritating; annoying.	1) an irksome task	vex, gall, rattle, abrasive, aggravating, annoying, bothersome, carking, chafing, disturbing, exasperating,
manacle	A man is shackled with manacles	one of two metal bands joined by a chain, for fastening a person's hands or ankles; shacklesfetter (a person or a part of the body) with manacles	They always keep prisoners in manacles for control. His hands were manacled behind his back.	shackled, shackles, restrain, band, bind, bond, bracelet, chain, cuff(s), fetter, handcuff(s),
modest		1. unassuming in the estimation of one's abilities or achievements.  2. (of an amount, rate, or level) relatively moderate, limited, or small.	1) Despite its modest [=somewhat small] size, the city has many things to offer tourists.   2) They own a modest home near the beach.   3) She enjoyed modest success with her singing career.   4) He earns a modest income.   5) We live on a modest budget.   6) New cars are now available at relatively modest prices.   7) He has only a modest amount of knowledge on the subject.   8) It is a book of only modest importance.	humble, diffident, reserved, reticent, docile, average, intermediate, mean, median, medium, middle, middling, midsize,
noxious	Nitrogen oxides (NOx) are poisonous to human respiratory.	harmful, poisonous, or very unpleasant.	1) noxious waste   2) noxious fumes	virulent, dreadful, revolting, ghastly, horrid, insalubrious, noisome, sickly, unhealthful, unhealthy, unwholesome,
pernicious	Perny knows that the noxious and deadly venom of the snake spreads silently, causing unnoticed damage.	having a harmful effect, especially in a gradual or subtle way.	1) More pernicious still has been the acceptance of the author's controversial ideas by the general public.   2) the pernicious effects of jealousy   3) She thinks television has a pernicious influence on our children.	adverse, bad, destructive, malign, wicked, baleful, baneful, damaging, dangerous, deleterious, detrimental,
predicament		a difficult, unpleasant, or embarrassing situation.	1) The governor has gotten himself into quite a predicament.   2) I don't know how to get out of the predicament I'm in.	plight, muddle, trouble, crisis, bind, box, catch-22, corner, dilemma, fix, hole, impasse,
proficient		competent or skilled in doing or using something.	1) a proficient reader   2) He has become very proficient at computer programming.   3) She is proficient in two foreign languages.	skillful, accomplished, seasoned, ace, adept, adroid, deft, compleat, complete, consummate, crack, crackerjack,
prolix	prolonged lexico = lengthy (in words)	(of speech or writing) using or containing too many words; tediously lengthy.	1) The speech was unnecessarily prolix.   2) a somewhat prolix writer	prolonbged, verbose, wordy, diffuse, digressive, circuitous, circumlocutory, diffuse, garrulous, logorrheic, long-winded, pleonastic, rambling,
scorn		a feeling and expression of contempt or disdain for someone or something.		contempt, deride, slight, despisement, despite, despitefulness, disdain, misprision,
subordinate		lower in rankof less or secondary importance.	The commander and his subordinate officers attended the parade In adventure stories, character must be subordinate to action.	inferior, junior, less, lesser, lower, subsidiary, auxiliary, minor, smaller,
unseemly	not seem proper in behavior	(of behavior or actions) not proper or appropriate.	Such unseemly conduct cannot exist without collaboration between an authoritarian power and an unchecked market.	indecorous, unrefined, amiss, graceless, improper, inapposite, inappropriate, inapt, incongruous, incorrect,
veritable	this very thing	used as an intensifier, often to qualify a metaphor	The early 1970s witnessed a veritable (=true) price explosion.	authentic, classic, genuine, real, absolute, all-out, arrant, blank,
acolyte	Sound like a colleague. An acolyte is a colleague of lower rank - an assistant or a follower.	a person assisting a priest in a religious service or procession.	A popular professor dining with a few of her acolytes	retainer, disciple, adherent, convert, disciple, epigone, follower, liege man, partisan, pupil,
anoint	rub with oil	smear or rub with oil, typically as part of a religious ceremony.nominate or choose (someone) as successor to or leading candidate for a position.	The priest anointed them (with oil). He was anointed as the organizational candidate of the party.	bedaub, besmear, daub, smear,consecrate, sanctify, bless, ordain, hallow.
base		1. use (something specified) as the foundation or starting point for something.  2. (adjective) without moral principles; ignoble.	Inaccurate conclusions are based on incomplete facts We hope his motives are nothing so base as money	pedestal, prop, ground, hang, predicate, rest,
coercion		the action or practice of persuading someone to do something by using force or threats.	1) They used coercion to obtain the confession.	compulsion, constraint, oppression, duress, force, pressure, arm-twisting,
coin		1. invent  2. a flat disc or piece of metal with an official stamp, used as money.		bread, bucks, cabbage, cash, change, chips, currency, dough,
cunning		having or showing skill in achieving one's ends by deceit or evasion.	A cunning look came into his eyes	artful, beguiling, cagey, crafty, wily, sly, cute, designing, devious, dodgy,
discomfit	Disrupting a comfort zone will embarrass people, making them uncomfortable.	make (someone) feel uneasy or embarrassed.	He was not noticeably discomfited by her tone	abash, disconcert, agitatem ruffle, baffle, balk, beat, checkmate, foil, frustrate, thwart,
dissent	dis + assent = not agreeing with the mass	hold or express opinions that are at variance with those commonly or officially held.	There was no dissent from this view	conflict, disaccord, discord, dfiance, strife, bickering, discordance, discordancy, disharmony, dissension, dissidence,
distill		purify (a liquid) by heating it so that it vaporizes, then cooling and condensing the vapour and collecting the resulting liquid.extract the essential meaning or most important aspects of	Some caves are dry, others distill water from invisible rifts My travel notes were distilled into a book	dribble, drip, drop, trickle,
dubious		1. hesitating or doubting.  2. not to be relied upon; suspect.	1) I was dubious about the plan.	debatable, disputable, dodgy, doubtable, doubtful, dubitable, equivocal, fishy,
ebullient	From Latin e- (out) + bullire (to boil) + ent. She’s ebullient, boiling with energy.	cheerful and full of energy.	1) her ebullient charm   2) an ebullient entertainer	exuberant, buoyant, exhilerated, jubilant, high-spirited, active, airy, animate, animated,
facetious	You should not face a serious problem with that flippant manner	treating serious issues with deliberately inappropriate humour; flippant.	No facetious remarks at this ceremony please.	flippant, frivolous, waggish, whimsical, clever, humorous, jocular, smart, witty,
fallible	can be wrong	capable of making mistakes or being wrong.	1) a fallible generalization	errant, amiss, bad, defective, faulty, flawed, imperfect, blemished, frail
florid	Flower on red patches look intricate	1. excessively intricate or elaborate.  2. having a red or flushed complexion.	1) florid prose   2) florid declamations	bedizened, fussy, gingerbread, gingerbreaded, gingerbready,  ornate, fancy, baroque, extravagant, ostentanious, overdecorated, overwrought,
gawky	g + awk + y = go awkward	nervously awkward and ungainly.	1) a gawky adolescent	awkward, inelegant, inept, clumsy, gawkish, graceless, klutzy, uncoordinated, ungainly,
inveigle	A woman in veil tries to seduce/deceive me in giving her money.	persuade (someone) to do something by means of deception or flattery.	She inveigled him to write the letter.	cajole, wheedle, coax, tempt, draw in, persuade, rope (in), snow, allure, bait, beguile, betray,
jettison	Looks like jet-my-son. Jet, my son is thrown out! You can't abandon him!	throw or drop (something) from an aircraft or ship abandon or discard (someone or something that is no longer wanted).	Aix aircraft jettisoned their loads in the sea. Individuals are often forced to jettison certain attitudes and behaviors.	discarding, discharge, relinquish, disposal, disposition, dumping, junking, removal, riddance, scrapping,
mendacity	Men have the audacity for deceit	untruthfulness.	People publicly castigated for past mendacity	deceit, dissemble, perfidy, fable, fabrication, fairy tale, falsehood, falsity, fib, lie, prevarication,
munificent	His money is sufficient to be generous	characterized by or displaying great generosity.	1) munificent donors	generous, philanthropic, magnanimous, bighearted, bounteous, bountiful, charitable, free, freehanded, freehearted, fulsome,
naive		(of a person or action) showing a lack of experience, wisdom, or judgement.	1) the experienced man speaks simply and wisely to the naive girl	ingenuous, innocent, artless, credulous, primitive, aw-shucks, dewy, dewy-eyed, green
noble		1. belonging by rank, title, or birth to the aristocracy. 2. having or showing fine personal qualities or high moral principles.		aristocratic, patrician, magnificent, splendid, blue-blooded, genteel, gentle, grand, great, highborn, highbred,
parochial	From Greek para- (near) + oikos (house, clan). The parochial villagers, focused only on matters near their homes, had little interest in their world beyond their parish.	having a limited or narrow outlook or scope.	This worldview seems incredibly naive and parochial.	illiberal, insular, provincial, myopic, Lilliputian, little, narrow, narrow-minded, petty, picayune,
pedestrian		1. a person walking rather than travelling in a vehicle. 2. lacking inspiration or excitement; dull.		ambler, hiker, perambulator, rambler, tramper, walker, alpinist, backpacker, plodding, tedious, monotonous, wearisome,
prevaricate	Looks like pre (before) + fabricate. Before fabricating the truth completely, they try to equivocate first	speak or act in an evasive way.	Government officials prevaricated about the real costs of the project.	hedge, fence, shilly-shally, shuffle, dodge (the issue), sidestep (the issue), equivocate, vacillate, quibble, cavil, lie
prime		1. of first importance; main. 2. the state or time of greatest vigor or success in a person's life. 3. make (something) ready for use or action.		principal, foremost, supreme, chief, commanding, first, foremost, head, high, lead, leading, best, top quality, superlative, optimal
radical		1. (especially of change or action) relating to or affecting the fundamental nature of something; far-reaching or thorough. 2. advocating or based on thorough or complete political or social change		absolute, through, utter, draconian, drastic, profound progressive, fanatical, extreme, extremist, fanatic, rabid, revolutionary, revolutionist, ultra,
recrudescent	re + crudus = become raw again, recur	break out again; recur.	Recrudescence of the disease is a real possibility
temporal		relating to worldly as opposed to spiritual affairs; secular.relating to time.	the Church did not imitate the secular rulers who thought only of temporal gain. the spatial and temporal dimensions of human interference in complex ecosystems.	carnal, secular, profane, mortal, earthborn, earthbound, earthly, fleshly, material, mundane, sublunary,
transitory	The transit is only temporary	not permanent.	Visiting the beaches is the transitory nature of earthly joy	brief, deciduous, transient, ephemeral, evanescent, flash, fleeting, fugacious, fugitive,
viable		capable of working successfully;feasible	1) a viable skin graft   2) viable offspring	sensible, realistic, tenable, achievable, attainable, doable, feasible, possible, practicable, realizable, workable,
abreast		side by side and facing the same way. alongside or level with something.up to date with information	They drew abreast each other.The cart came abreast of the Americans in their rickshaw The tech companies are trying hard to keep abreast of developments.	alongside, acquainted, au courant, conversant, familiar, informed, knowledgeable, up, up-to-date,
confound		1. cause surprise or confusion in (someone), especially by not according with their expectations. 2. mix up (something) with something else.	1) tactics to confound the enemy	astonished, startle, perplex, addle, baffle, bamboozle, beat, befog, befuddle, bemuse, bewilder,
digression		a temporary departure from the main subject in speech or writing.	Every place Hamilton, his parents, or his wife visited over a century's time is described at length; everyone he met merits at least a minor biographical digression.	deviate, diversion, aside, divagation, excursion, tangent,
discrepancy		a lack of compatibility or similarity between two or more facts	There were discrepancies between their accounts of the accident.There is some discrepancy between the results of the two studies.	contrast, difference, disaccord, disagreement, disparateness, disparity, dissimilarity, dissimilitude, distance,
duplicitous	Duplicates are deceiving	deceitful.	As its name suggests, it is a ‘double-agency’, a duplicitous creature.	deceit, bent, crooked, deceptive, dishonest, double-dealing, fast, fraudulent, guileful,
expedient	For the expedition, they found the convenient and practical route, though not proper one.	adj - (of an action) convenient and practical although possibly improper or immoral.noun - a means of attaining an end, especially one that is convenient but considered improper or immoral	We've got a politically expedient solution that isn't safeWe did not seek to bring back a collection of expedients which could be added up to a solution of a temporary crisis.	advantageous, pragmatic, tactical, advisable, desirable, judicious, politic, prudent, wise,
fabricate		1. invent (something) in order to deceive.  2. construct or manufacture (an industrial product), especially from prepared components.	1) Only the largest parts were fabricated at the factory.   2) Their plan is to fabricate the house out of synthetic materials.	assemble, fashion, form, frame, make, manufacture, produce, counterfeit, forge, falsify,
glum	Gloomy lumps of coal make me dismal and downcast.	looking or feeling dejected; morose.	They became glum when hearing the news of university rejection	gloomy, dejected, crestfallen, disheartened, desolate, melancholy, black, bleak, cheerless, chill, Cimmerian, cloudy, cold, comfortless,
harbinger	The hard binger announcing that they were about to run out of food. The empty fridge is the herald.	a person or thing that announces or signals the approach of another./indicator	Everyone knows the groundhog is the harbinger of a change in seasons.	herald, prelude, portent, angel, foregoer, forerunner, outrider, precursor,
intrinsic		belonging naturally; essential.	1) the intrinsic worth of a gem   2) the intrinsic brightness of a star	inherent, innate, inborn, congenital, built-in, constitutional, constitutive, essential, hardwired, immanent, inborn, inbred,
largesse	large + ness. Large gifts and generous acts show true largesse	generosity in bestowing money or gifts upon others.	1) a philanthropist known for his largesse	generous, munificence, liberal, benevolence, philanthropy, bestowal, comp, donation, donative, fairing, freebie, gift, giveaway,
libertine	Excessive liberty in dating is just an euphemism for you being a philanderer	a person, especially a man, who freely indulges in sensual pleasures without regard to moral principles. a freethinker in matters of religion.	Casanova was that famous libertine. Other than being a womanizer, he was also a scam artist and scofflaw, an alchemist, spy and church cleric	philanderer, playboy, seducer, hedonmist, profligate, reprobate corrupt, debased, debauched, decadent, degenerate, degraded, demoralized, depraved,
manifest		1. show (a quality or feeling) by one's acts or appearance; demonstrate. 2. a document listing a ship's contents, cargo, passengers, and crew, for the use of customs officers.	Ray manifested signs of severe depression.	apparent, palpable, definite, conspicuous, perceptible, bald, bald-faced, barefaced, bright-line, broad, clear, clear-cut,
minute		1. so small as to be insignificant.  2. (of an investigation or account) taking the smallest points into consideration; precise and meticulous.  3.a summarized record of the proceedings at a meeting.		beat, eyeblink, flash, heartbeat, instant, jiff, jiffy, moment,
modish	model + ish	conforming to or following what is currently popular and fashionable.	1) a modish hat   2) a modish writer	fashionable, stylish, contemporary, chic, cool, exclusive, fresh, happening,
nascent		(especially of a process or organization) just coming into existence and beginning to display signs of future potential.	1) a nascent middle class   2) her nascent singing career	aborning, budding, emerging, inceptive, inchoate, incipient,
perennial	persistent + annual	lasting or existing for a long or apparently infinite time; enduring or continually recurring.	1) a perennial plant   2) This variety of oregano is perennial.	perpetual, undying, abiding, abiding, ageless, continuing, dateless, enduring, eternal, everlasting, immortal,
pious	The pie given to us was made by a religious person.	1. devoutly religious.  2. (of a hope) sincere but unlikely to be fulfilled.	1) pious [=devout] churchgoing people   2) They lived a quiet, pious life.	reverent, constant, dedicated, devoted, devout, down-the-line, faithful, fast, good,
providential	They provided a residence just when he needed it (fortunately!) and it was heaven-sent	1. occurring at a favorable time; opportune. 2. involving divine foresight or providence.	1) We had made a providential escape.   2) It seemed providential that he should arrive at just that moment.	fluky, fortuitous, fortunate, auspicious, propitious, felicitous, expedient, happy, heaven-sent, lucky,
prowess		1. skill or expertise in a particular activity or field. 2. bravery in battle.	1) He is known for his prowess on the football field.   2) athletic/physical/technical prowess   3) their naval and military prowess	mastery, adroitness, dexterity, proficiency gallantry, bravery, courage, courageousness, daring, daringness, dauntlessness, doughtiness,
schism	She chisels a division in the rock, creating a split.	a split or division between strongly opposed sections or parties, caused by differences in opinion or belief.	1) a schism between leading members of the party   2) The controversy created a schism [=rift] in the group.	rupture, conflict, disaccord, discord, discordance, discordancy, disharmony, dissension, dissent,
slander		make false and damaging statements about (someone).	They were accused of slandering the head of state.	aspersing, blackening, calumniation, calumny, character assassination, defamation, defaming, libel,
stalwart	Looks like stay + war. Those who stay beside you in the wars are loyal	loyal, reliable, and hard-working.	He remained a stalwart supporter of the cause despite everyone else giving up.	bold, brave, courageous, dauntless, vigorous, doughty, fearless, gallant, greathearted,
supplicate	"The hungry stray cats gathered, hoping to ""supply"" their needs as they supplicated for food with their pleading eyes."	ask or beg for something earnestly or humbly.	He supplicated the emperor for the pardon of those who had supported the uprising.	appeal (to), beg, implore, solicit, beseech, besiege, conjure, entreat, impetrate,
terse	She is assigned to read the verse, but it’s so concise to the point of being curt.	sparing in the use of words; abrupt.	a terse summary he issued a terse warning before quickly leaving the scene.	brusque, blunt, incisive, pithy, succinct, laconic, aphoristic, apothegmatic, brief, capsule, compact, compendious, concise, crisp,
tirade	The tired aid worker gave a lengthy speech about the humanitarian crisis.	a long, angry speech of criticism or accusation.	1) He went into a tirade about the failures of the government.   2) The coach directed a tirade at the team after the loss.	diatribe, polemic, harangue, berating, censure, jeremiad, philippic, rant,
universal		relating to or done by all people or things in the world or in a particular group; applicable to all cases.		uniquitous, comprehensive, adaptable, all-around, protean, versatile,
vanquish	If a van squished the ant crossing the road, then you could say that the ant has been defeated.	defeat thoroughly./conquer	1) They were vanquished in battle.   2) vanquished enemies/foes	conquer, dominate, overpower, pacify, subdue, annihilate, subject, subjugate, subordinate,
woeful	When the wolf wails for its dying partner, the scene is so sad and terrible.	characterized by, expressive of, or causing sorrow or misery. very bad; deplorable.	They heard the eerie, woeful cry of a lone wolf over its dead partner.The remark was enough to establish his woeful ignorance about his theater. It has been abandoned for years and is in a woeful state.	sad, unhappy, miserable, woebegone, doleful, forlorn, crestfallen, glum, gloomy, dejected, downcast, disconsolate, downhearted, despondent, depressed, despairing, dismal, grief-strickendreadful, awful, terrible, frightful, atrocious, disgraceful, deplorable, shameful, hopeless, lamentable, substandard, poor, inadequate, inferior, unsatisfactory
malfeasance	From Old French mal (evil) + faisance (activity) = wrongdoing	wrongdoing, especially (US) by a public official. Related to nonfeasance, misfeasance.	The investigation has uncovered evidence of corporate malfeasance.	misbehavior, misconduct, misdoing, wrongdoing,
abject	I absolutely reject such a wretched poverty imposed upon me	1. (of something bad) experienced or present to the maximum degree. 2. (of a person or their behavior) completely without pride or dignity; self-abasing.	His cruel words of breakup plunged her into abject miseryLater, his abject apology couldn't salvage their relationship.	2. obsequious, fawning, serville, base, humble, menial, servile, slavish,
amicable		characterized by friendliness and absence of discord.	1) amicable relations/discussions   2) an amicable agreement	courteous, polite, cordial, agreeable, compatible, congenial, frictionless, harmonious, kindred, unanimous, united,
animosity		strong hostility.	He felt nothing but animosity toward his boss. We put aside our personal animosities so that we could work together.	antagonism, antipathy, aversion, acrimony, rancour, resentment, abhorrence, bad blood, bitterness, enmity, gall, grudge,
aver	"Comes from Latin a- (to) + verus (true, as in ""verity"" or ""verify""). The witness affirmed the truth in court, verifying the facts with confidence."	state or assert to be the case.	Mr. Murray avers that many large organizations in the private sector are run by curmudgeons like him …	affirm, allege, assert, avouch, avow, claim, contend, declare, attest, profess
barrage	The bar rage with a bombardment of drinks	1. (v) bombard (someone) with questions, criticisms, complaints, etc.  2. (n) an artificial barrier across a river or estuary to prevent flooding, aid irrigation or navigation, or to generate electricity by tidal power.	His doctor was barraged with unsolicited advice.They are considering a tidal barrage built across the Severn estuary.	blitz, blitzkrieg, bombardment, cannonade, drumbeat, drumfire, flurry, fusillade,
cathartic		providing psychological relief through the open expression of strong emotions; causing catharsis.	crying is a cathartic release	purgative, purging, purifying, cleansing, cleaning, releasing, relieving, freeing, delivering, exorcising, ridding
decipher		succeed in understanding, interpreting, or identifying (something).	1) decipher a secret message	construe, break, crack, decode, decrypt, discern, perceive, fathom
delusion		1. an idiosyncratic belief or impression maintained despite being contradicted by reality or rational argument. 2. the action of deluding or the state of being deluded./deception	1) under the delusion that they will finish on schedule   2) delusions of grandeur	misbelief, fallacy, fantasy, chimera, conceit, daydream, dream, fancy, fantasy, figment, hallucination,
dispense	She had to distribute expense evenly among the team, doing without the help of her boss.	distribute or provide (a service or information) to a number of people.manage without or get rid of.	They dispense food among the needy	administer, allocate, allot, bestow, apportion, deal (out), distribute, dole out, hand out, mete (out),
eloquent		fluent or persuasive in speaking or writing.	1) an eloquent preacher	persuasive, articulate, potent, suggestive, fluent, silver-tongued, well-spoken,
enthrall	As they enter the hall (enthral) for the Hogwarts tour, they are completely captivated.	capture the fascinated attention of.	The movie has enthralled [=charmed, captivated] audiences across the country.	captivate, bewitch, allure, intrigue, arrest, bedazzle, catch up, enchant, fascinate, grip, hypnotize, mesmerize,
eradicate		destroy completely; put an end to.	1) programs to eradicate illiteracy	eliminate, suppress, exterminate, abolish, annihilate, black out, blot out, cancel, clean (up), efface, erase,
fledgling		a person or organization that is immature, inexperienced, or underdeveloped.	1) a female bird feeding her fledglings	emerging, dawning, abecedarian, apprentice, babe, beginner, colt, cub, freshman, greenhorn,
fortitude	From fortify + tude. Fighting attitude gave the firefighters strength to face the blazing fire with resilience	courage in pain or adversity.	He accepted his increasing illness with fortitude.	courage, brave, resilience, stoicism, valor, backbone, constancy, fiber, grit, grittiness, guts, intestinal fortitude, pluck,
fortuitous	Four chews for us left, how fortunate!	happening by chance rather than intention./happening by a lucky chance; fortunate.	1) His presence there was entirely fortuitous.   2) a fortuitous circumstance/discovery	unexpected, serendipitous, haphazard,  providential, auspicious, felicitous, fluky, fortunate, happy, heaven-sent, lucky,
goad	Looks like goat. Don't provoke the goat	1. provoke or annoy (someone) so as to stimulate an action or reaction.  2. drive (an animal) with a spiked stick.	He goaded her on to more daring revelations.The government was finally goaded into action	provoke, spur, excite, impel, induce, boost, encouragement, impetus, impulse, incentive, incitation, incitement, instigation,
imminent		about to happen	1) … systems engineers have become rather blasé about the imminent liftoff.	impending, menacing, anticipated, looming, pending, threatening,
incontrovertible	not controversial	not able to be denied or disputed.	2 + 2 = 4 is an incontrovertible fact	unassailable, irrefutable, accomplished, certain, inarguable, incontestable, indisputable, indubitable, irrefragable,
itinerant	An itinerant is usually skilled in making itineries	(adj) travelling from place to place.(n) a person who travels from place to place.	An itinerant preacher/lecturer/performer	peripatetic, wayfaring, roaming, footloose, wanderer, ambulant, ambulatory, errant, fugitive, gallivanting, nomad, nomadic, perambulatory,
magnanimous	She was a magnet for animals because she was so magnanimous feeding them.	generous or forgiving, especially towards a rival or less powerful person.	1) the irreproachable lives and magnanimous sufferings of their followers	generous, charitable, benevolent, beneficent, openhanded, big-hearted, great-hearted, munificent, bountiful, liberal, altruistic, kind, kindly, philanthropic, chivalrous, noble
meritorious	The merit of her praiseworthy achievement was outstanding, making her deserving of the award.	deserving reward or praise.	He was honored for his meritorious military service	admirable, applaudable, commendable, creditable, estimable, laudable, praiseworthy,
mutiny	The mute sailors staged a revolt against the captain, seizing control of the ship.	an open rebellion against the proper authorities, especially by soldiers or sailors against their officers.	A mutiny by those manning the weapons could trigger a global war	insurgence, insurrection, riot, subversion, anarchy, defiance, outbreak, rebellion, revolt, revolution, rising,
paradoxical		seemingly absurd or self-contradictory.	1) the paradoxical theory that global warming will lead to the next Ice Age	anomalous, contradictory, incongruous, improbable, absurd
perseverance		persistence in doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving success. perserve (v)	1) His perseverance was rewarded: after many rejections, he finally found a job.   2) Perseverance is required to perfect just about any skill.	tenacity, resolve, patience, endurance, diligence, steadfast, doggedness, obduracy, obdurateness, obstinacy, obstinateness, stubbornness,
render		1. provide or give (a service, help, etc.). 2.cause to be or become; make. 3.represent or depict artistically.  4. covertly send (a foreign criminal or terrorist suspect) for interrogation abroad; subject to extraordinary rendition. 5. melt down (fat) in order to clarify it. 6. cover (stone or brick) with a coat of plaster.		cede, cough up, deliver, offer, give up, hand over, lay down, relinquish, surrender,
repertoire		1. a stock of plays, dances, or items that a company or a performer knows or is prepared to perform. 2. a stock of skills or types of behavior that a person habitually uses.	1) The band's repertoire includes both classic and modern jazz.	repository, budget, fund, inventory, pool, reservoir, stock, supply,
resilient		1. (of a person or animal) able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions. 2. (of a substance or object) able to recoil or spring back into shape after bending, stretching, or being compressed.	Babies are generally far more resilient than new parents realizeHe was still young and resilient.	buoyant, adaptable, pliant, flexible, bouncy, elastic, rubberlike, rubbery, springy, stretch, stretchable,
resolute	We must be determined to follow the New Year resolutions	admirably purposeful, determined, and unwavering.	France's resolute defense of Verdun.	purposeful, adamant, steadfast, deliberate, pertinacious, bound, decisive, determined, do-or-die, firm, hell-bent (on or upon), intent,
supple	Same Latin root as supplicate (beg, implore): sub- (from below) + placare (placate). To supplicate for his son’s pardon, the old man needed to bend down on his knees, though he was no longer supple.	bending and moving easily and gracefully; flexible.	My mind is becoming more supple figurative.He watched the movements of her supple body.	bendy, flexible, limber, lissome, lithe, elegant, pliant, elastic
valor		great courage in the face of danger, especially in battle.	1) The soldiers received the nation's highest award for valor.   2) a woman of valor	audacity, bottle, bravery, courage, courageousness, daring, daringness, dauntlessness, doughtiness,
unprecedented		never done or known before.	1) The team has enjoyed unprecedented success this year.   2) This level of growth is unprecedented.   3) An unprecedented number of students are taking the class.	unrivalled, unequalled, uncommon, prodigious, fresh, new, novel, original, strange, unaccustomed, unfamiliar, unheard-of,
stinting	stint + ing. He only tipped a stint of money it’s miserly.	supply a very ungenerous or inadequate amount of (something).		cheap, chintzy, close, closefisted, mean, mingy, miserly, niggard,
extrapolate		extend the application of (a method or conclusion) to an unknown situation by assuming that existing trends will continue or similar methods will be applicable.	extrapolate public sentiment on one issue from known public reaction on others	conclude, decide, deduce, derive, gather, infer, judge, make out,
liability	He lied about his ability to run the business and is now responsible for the debts. They're large burdens.	1. the state of being legally responsible for something. 2. a person or thing whose presence or behavior is likely to put one at a disadvantage.	He was cleared of liability for the accident She was seen as an electoral liability to her husband	accountability, responsibility, legal responsibility, answerability hindrance, encumbrance, burden, handicap, nuisance, inconvenience; obstacle, impediment, drawback
euphoric	Euphorias make you elated and joyful like dancing at a festival.	characterized by or feeling intense excitement and happiness.	He knew he was going to win big, big, big, and he was euphoric about it.A drug's euphoric effects, which can last from a few minutes to a few hours, are what get a person to take the substance in the first place.	elated, happy, joyful, joyous, delighted, gleeful, excited, exhilarated, animated, jubilant, exultant, ecstatic, blissful, enraptured, rapturous, rhapsodic
elementary		1. relating to the rudiments of a subject. 2. not decomposable into elements or other primary constituents.	1) an elementary principle   2) He is lacking even the most elementary notions of fairness.   3) The researchers made an elementary error.   1) He has an elementary understanding of calculus.   2) elementary arithmetic	rudimentary, basal, facile, basic, beginning, elemental, essential, fundamental, introductory,
heterodox	hetero + dox = different opinions	not conforming with accepted or orthodox standards or beliefs.	Public expression of such heterodox views is impossible. It goes against people's beliefs.	dissentient, dissenting, dissident, heretical, iconoclastic, maverick, nonconformist, nonorthodox,
fervent	fervid, but longer and more steady emotions	having or displaying a passionate intensity.	Annie uttered a fervent prayerA fervent belief in human kindness	ardent, profound, emotional, fanatical, blazing, burning, charged, demonstrative, emotional, fervid, feverish,
gaffe	Looks like g (gape) + affe (giraffe). Don't gape at the mere giraffe. You're causing an embrassment.	an unintentional act or remark causing embarrassment to its originator; a blunder.	1) committed an embarrassing gaffe when he mispronounced her name	blunder, indiscretion, impropriety, familiarity, faux pas, gaff, impropriety, indiscretion, solecism,
temper		1. a person's state of mind seen in terms of their being angry or calm. 2. the degree of hardness and elasticity in steel or other metal. 3. act as a neutralizing or counterbalancing force to (something).		temperament, mettle, mood, air, ambience, aroma, atmosphere, aura, climate, flavor, halo,
painstaking	It takes a lot of pains to be careful and meticulous	done with or employing great care and thoroughness.	painstaking accuracy a painstaking student/worker	careful, conscientious, assiduos, thorough, sedulous, diligent, fussy, loving, meticulous, scrupulous,
economy		1. the state of a country or region in terms of the production and consumption of goods and services and the supply of money. 2. careful management of available resources.		thrift, prudence, restraint, frugality, husbandry, parsimony, penny-pinching, providence, scrimping, skimping,
qualm	Quality issues in cloths alarm the designers and raise doubts among customers	an uneasy feeling of doubt, worry, or fear, especially about one's own conduct; a misgiving.	1) had no qualms about asking for their help   2) It was about an enduring secular world where people did unspeakable things, seemingly without qualm and without any grave consequences to themselves.	doubt, concern, worry, anxiety, demur, compunction, misgiving, scruple,
exonerate	ex + oner + ate = (free) from + a burden	1. (of an official body) absolve (someone) from blame for a fault or wrongdoing. 2. release someone from (a duty or obligation).	Her attorney claims that this new evidence will exonerate the defendant, her customer, completely. The Pope exonerated the king from his oath to the barons.	absolve, acquit, clear, exculpate, vindicate, relieve, exempt, liberate, dispense
implicit		1. suggested though not directly expressed. 2. always to be found in; essentially connected with. 3. with no qualification or question; absolute.	1) an implicit assumption	implied, tacit, inferred, inherent, unexpressed, unspoken, unvoiced, wordless,
phlegmatic	When children hoist a flag, their automatic reaction cannot be calm and unexcited.	(of a person) having an unemotional and stolidly calm disposition. n. phlegm	She was phlegmatic even during the most difficult moments of the crisis.	composed, serene, tranquil, placid, affectless, apathetic, cold-blooded, emotionless, impassible, impassive, numb, passionless,
propensity	When living in a proper city, she shows an inclination to every new trend, showing her natural tendency to be ahead of the curve.	an inclination or natural tendency to behave in a particular way.	Why do some people have a propensity for/toward violence?She has a propensity to assume the worst.	predisposition, proclivity, tendency, predilection, susceptibility, aptness,
foment	ferment.	instigate or stir up (an undesirable or violent sentiment or course of action).	1) foment a rebellion   2) was accused of fomenting a riot	brew, ferment, incite, instigate, generate, cause, abet, actuate, pick, provoke, raise,
embellish		make (something) more attractive by the addition of decorative details or features.	1) a book embellished with illustrations	decorate, adorn, furnish, enhance, embroider, exaggerate, hyperbolize, magnify, pad, stretch,
inviolate	in (not) + violate = free from violation	free or safe from injury or violation.	These rights must remain inviolate.	unharmed, unhurt, pristine, intact, pure, hallowed, holy, inviolable, sacred, sacrosanct, unassailable
renege	re + nege (negative) = go negative on one's said words	go back on a promise, undertaking, or contract.	They had promised to pay her tuition but later reneged.	back down, break, repudiate, retract, back off, back out, cop out, fink out,
arresting		1. striking; eye-catching. 2. denoting a person or agency that seizes and detains someone by legal authority.	At 192cm he was an arresting figure.	conspicuous, dazzling, impressive, absorbing, consuming, engaging, engrossing, enthralling, fascinating, gripping, immersing,
obstinate	Sounds like obs-teen-ate. Obsessed teens who ate uncooked food are so stubborn - they thought it was cool.	stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or chosen course of action, despite attempts to persuade one to do so.	I don't think you'll succeed in changing his mind—he's very obstinate.	stubborn, adamant, willful, self-willed, dogged, mullish, rigid, hard, hardened, hardheaded, hard-nosed, bullheaded
vivacious	vivre + ous = lively. Vivi is vigorous and lively.	(especially of a woman) attractively lively and animated.	In the bar, she stood out as a pretty and vivacious brunette.	lively, active, airy, animate, ebullient, buoyant, scitillating, animated, bouncing, brisk, energetic, frisky,
histrionic	Historically, theatrical performances often feature dramatic and exaggerated acts since the audience is far away from the stage	excessively theatrical or dramatic in character or style.	1) histrionic gestures   2) a tendency to become histrionic	hammy, melodramatic, exaggerated, stagy, theatrical,
prodigious	The prodigy possesses huge amount of knowledge	remarkably or impressively great in extent, size, or degree.	1) a prodigious achievement/effort/talent	amazing, astonishing, astounding, awesome, awful, eye-opening, fabulous, marvelous,enormous, colossal, vast, tremendous, substantial,
tentative		1. not certain or fixed; provisional. 2. done without confidence; hesitant.		provisional, unconfirmed, preliminary, sepcuilative, conjjectural, conditional, contingent (on or upon), dependent, subject (to),
falter		lose strength or momentum.speak in a hesitant or unsteady voice	Her smile faltered and then faded.“I c-c-can't,” he faltered	hesitate, delay, stall, waver, oscillate, fluctuate, vacillate stammer, stutter, stumble, speak haltingly, hesitate, pause, halt, splutter, flounder, blunder, fumble.
chastise		rebuke or reprimand severely./scold	The coach chastised the players for their mistakes.	baste, bawl out, berate, rebuke, admonish, censure, lambast, call down, castigate, chew out, dress down, flay,
intermittent		occurring at irregular intervals; not continuous or steady.	1) intermittent rain	sporadic, fitful, spasmodic, fragmentory, scattered, on-and-off, periodic, periodical, recurrent, recurring,
profound		1. (of a state, quality, or emotion) very great or intense.  2. (of a person or statement) having or showing great knowledge or insight.		intense, abstruse, intellectual, astute, fervent, arcane, deep, esoteric, hermetic, recondite,
propagate	Propping open the gate allowed the plants to spread and reproduce	1. spread and promote (an idea, theory, etc.) widely. 2. breed specimens of (a plant or animal) by natural processes from the parent stock.	The group propagates [=promotes] its antigovernment doctrine on the Web. The plant can be easily propagated [=bred, grown] by taking leaf cuttings	disseminate, promulgate, transmit, broadcast,breed, multiply, procreate, reproduce,
allusive	The sounds are not all illusion; they might be suggestive of something unknown	"using or containing suggestion rather than explicit mention. related to ""allude to"", ""allusion"""	His elegy for a fellow poet, Mick Imlah, shows a directness and clarity that is not always felt in his allusive poetry.	alluding, referring, denotative, denoting, indicative, reflective, significant, signifying,
glib	Good librarian should have more than superficial knowledge of books	(of words or a speaker) fluent but insincere and shallow.	She was careful not to let the answer sound too glib.	facile, superficial, empty, superficial, flippant, hollow, meaningless, breezy, casual, inappropriate,
curb		1. a check or restraint on something. 2. a type of bit with a strap or chain attached which passes under a horse's lower jaw, used as a check.	The goverment announced a curb on public spending.	bridle, check, constrain, deter, damper, contain, control, govern, hold, inhibit,
lull		calm or send to sleep, typically with soothing sounds or movements.make (someone) feel deceptively secure or confidenta temporary interval of quiet or lack of activity.	The rhythm of the boat lulled her to sleep.he had been unable to lull his wife's anxiety about her fading beauty.  for two days there had been a lull in the fighting.	soothe, assuage, allay, ease, pacify, palliate, stifle break, breath, breather, interruption, pause, recess,
mettlesome	Looks like metal + some: He's as strong as metal - spirited and fearless	(of a person or animal) full of spirit and courage; lively.  mettle (n) = ability to cope well with difficulties or to face a demanding situation in a spirited and resilient way	Their horses were beasts of burden, not mettlesome chargers.	gritty, fearless, valiant, intrepid, active,  airy, animate, animated, bouncing, brisk, energetic, frisky,
astute	"Looks like ""as tutor."" As tutor, she could tell that her student was shrewd and canny, though not booksmart."	having or showing an ability to accurately assess situations or people and turn this to one's advantage.	1) an astute observer   2) astute remarks	canny, shrewd, acute, clever, brilliant, clear-eyed, clear-sighted, hard-boiled, hardheaded, heady, knowing, savvy,
fawn		1. (of a person) give a servile display of exaggerated flattery or affection, typically in order to gain favour. 2. (of a deer) produce young.	They try to ingratiate themselves by fawning over the boss (=bring themselves favor by flattering/pleasing the boss)	flatter, eulogize, obsequious, serville, sycophantic, grovelling, apple-polish, bootlick, fuss, kowtow, suck (up), toady, truckle,
precipitous	precipitate (cause something suddenly) + ous. High precipitation degrades the soil and creates steep slope - it is very suden.	dangerously high or steep. (of an action) done suddenly and without careful consideration.	The road became narrower, the drop on each side more precipitous. His fall from power was precipitous	steep, sheer, high, dizzy cursory, abrupt, meteoric, drive-by, flying, gadarene, hasty, headlong, helter-skelter, hurried
repercussion		an unintended consequence of an event or action, especially an unwelcome one.		consequence, outcome, reverberation, backlash, effect, impact, influence, mark, sway,
regress	I regreted that he returned to his rebellious behaviors.	return to a former or less developed state.	He regressed to his former state of madness.	retrogress, return, revert, lapse, subside, deteriorate, wane
refute		prove (a statement or theory) to be wrong or false; disprove.	1) The lawyer refuted the testimony of the witness.   2) refute an argument/claim	disprove, confute,  demolish, debunk, contradict, deny, disaffirm, disallow, disavow, disclaim, disconfirm, disown,
replenish		restore (a stock or supply) to a former level or condition.	1) replenish a supply of fuel   2) … London's population was continually being replenished with recruits from the countryside …   3) … most of her income will be used to replenish the family's almost-depleted savings.   4) … the fields are rotated every three years with other crops … so that the soil can replenish itself and remain nitrogen rich.   5) Apparently, animals sleep to regulate body temperature, organize memories and replenish the immune system …	refill, refresh, reload, repack, brim, charge, cram, heap,
evoke		1. bring or recall (a feeling, memory, or image) to the conscious mind. 2. invoke (a spirit or deity).	The poems evoke a sense of desolate emptiness.	summon, invoke, educe, elicit, inspire, raise,
ire	ira/ire (n) is the root of irate (v)	anger.	1) He directed his ire at the coworkers who reported the incident.   2) The proposal has raised/roused/provoked the ire of environmentalists. [=has made environmentalists angry]	anger, rage, fury, temper, spleen, vexation, angriness, birse, choler, furor, fury, indignation, irateness,
languid	I'm so languishing(=feeble) to even wake up and learn languages.	1. (of a person, manner, or gesture) having or showing a disinclination for physical exertion or effort. 2. weak or faint from illness or fatigue.	1) arms too languid with happiness to embrace him	enervated, lethargic, torpid, sluggish, apathetic, lackadaisical, languishing, languorous, limp, listless, spiritless,
mollify	Molly pacified her boyfriend's anxiety before the job interview.	appease the anger or anxiety of (someone).(rare) soften, alleviate	Nature reserves were set up around the power stations to mollify local conservationists.The women hoped to mollify the harsh wilderness environment.	appease, assuage, conciliate, disarm, gentle, pacify, placate, propitiate,
pretentious		attempting to impress by affecting greater importance or merit than is actually possessed.		artificial, inflated, flamboyant, affected, grandiose, highfalutin, high-minded, la-di-da, ostentatious, pompous, snippy,
duress	Sounds like do-rest. His weakness became the threat that made him do the rest of the work for them.	threats, violence, constraints, or other action used to coerce someone into doing something against their will or better judgement.	1) while the German army was still held in duress by the Versailles treaty	arm-twisting, coercion, compulsion, constraint, intimidation, force, pressure,
vigilant		keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties.	1) When traveling through the city, tourists should be extra vigilant.   2) They were vigilant about protecting their children.   3) We remain vigilant against theft.   4) a vigilant tourist/parent	alert, attentive, awake, observant, prudent, circumspect, heedful, mindful, open-eyed, tenty, watchful,
headstrong	A person whose head is strong doesnt change his opinions or ways. He's stubborn / wayward.	energetically willful and determined.	1) a headstrong businessman	willful, wayward, stubborn, obstinate, froward, incontrollable, intractable, recalcitrant, refractory, uncontrollable, ungovernable, unmanageable,
convalescent	From Latin con (altogether) + valere (grow strong, be well). You convey less sickening scent. It's a sign you're recovering.	(of a person) recovering from an illness or medical treatment.	You're still convalescent and you need to rest.	improving, nursling, sufferer, victim, rehabilitant, inpatient, outpatient, case, patient,
nonplussed	"""No more tests!"" the student already felt confused and bewildered after the previous test."	so surprised and confused that one is unsure how to react.	1) She was nonplussed, but quickly collected herself, explained that the plumbing had been acting up for days, and told them to pay it no mind.   2) Cedric looked nonplussed. He looked from Bagman to Harry and back again as though sure he must have misheard what Bagman had said.	baffled, bewildered, fuddled, stupefied, confounded, hard put, hard-pressed, perplexed,
fret		1. be constantly or visibly anxious. 2. gradually wear away (something) by rubbing or gnawing. 3. flow or move in small waves.	she fretted about the cost of groceriesthe bay's black waves fret the seafront.	agonize, anguish, whine, torment, panic, corrode, eat, erode, gnaw, nibble,
decry	They cry down, publicly denouncing the racism in South Africa	publicly denounce.	1) the king may at any time decry … any coin of the kingdom	denounce, condemn, censure, lambast, bad-mouth, belittle, cry down, denigrate, deprecate, depreciate, derogate, diminish,
recourse	Redoing the course is the only option we have to graduate. Our last resort.	a source of help in a difficult situation (especially legal contexts)	Surgery may be the only recourse.They settled the matter without recourse to law	option, possibility, resort, hope, remedy, expedient, resort, resource,
commence		begin.	1) commence proceedings	begin, embark (on or upon), enter (into or upon), fall (to), get off, kick off, launch, lead off,
neutralize		make (something) ineffective by applying an opposite force or effect.	1) The soldiers tried to neutralize the attack by dividing the invading army.	annul, cancel (out), offset, nullify, invalidate, compensate (for), correct, counteract, counterbalance, counterpoise, make up (for),
exorcise		1. completely remove (something unpleasant) from one's mind or memory. 2. rid (a person or place) of a supposed evil spirit.	1) The movie is about a priest who tries to exorcise demons from a young girl.	expel, rid, purify, cashier, cast (off), chuck, deep-six, discard, ditch, dump, eighty-six,
finicky / finical	The fine picker demands exact arrangements for her particular tea set, or else she gets fussy.	(of a person) fussy about their needs or requirements. showing or requiring great attention to detail.	1) a finicky eater   2) My teacher is finicky about spelling.	fastidious, punctilious, fussy, exacting, demanding, picky, choosy, dainty, delicate, demanding, exacting, finical, finicking,
assail	Assailants are strongly criticized	make a concerted or violent attack on.criticize strongly	The military has for years been developing offensive capabilities, giving it the power not just to defend the US but to assail its foes. He assailed a group of editors for their alleged excesses.	abuse, attack, assault, pillory, chastice, bash, belabor, blast, castigate, excoriate, jump (on),
contravene	From Latin contra (against) + venire (go). By going against the school rules, they're risking offending the Honor of Code and getting kicked out.	offend against the prohibition or order of (a law, treaty, or code of conduct).conflict with (a right, principle, etc.), especially to its detriment.	certain members of his administration had contravened the law.the Privy Council held that the prosecution contravened the rights of the individual.	break, breach, fail to comply with, fail to observe, violate, infringe, offend against, transgress against conflict with, clash with, be at odds with, be at variance with, be in opposition to,
reiterate		say something again or a number of times, typically for emphasis or clarity.	1) reiterate a claim/view/point   2) She avoided answering our questions directly, instead reiterating that the answers could be found in her book.   3) Allow me to reiterate: if I am elected, I will not raise taxes.	duplicate, redo, rehearse, reduplicate, remake, renew, repeat, replicate, reprise,
poignant	When you're pregnant, you feel bittersweet, sad for your pains and happy for your baby.	evoking a keenly felt sense of emotion, especially of bittersweet sadness or regret	The father of the murder victim bade a poignant farewell to his son.	affecting, emotional, pitiful, mournful, impactful, impressive, moving, stirring, touching,
inundate		1. overwhelm (someone) with things or people to be dealt with. 2. flood.	1) was inundated with phone calls	swamp, drench, deluge, drown, engulf, flood, gulf, overflow, overwhelm, submerge,
oblivious	It's obvious you like to live with us but you are clearly not aware of your surroundings	not aware of or concerned about what is happening around one.	She became absorbed in the book, oblivious to the passage of time	heedless, impervious, clueless, ignorant, incognizant, innocent, insensible, nescient, unacquainted, unaware,
ironclad	clad=clothed. One who is clothed in iron cannot be weakned	impossible to contradict, weaken, or change.	The company has an ironclad policy against revealing secrets to competitors. He has an ironclad alibi	hard, mighty, powerful, tough, unyielding, firm, forceful, hearty,
plaintive	plaint (lamentation, complaint) + ive. The complaint about the festive occasion changed everyone's mood to mournful and lamenting.	sounding sad and mournful.	1) a plaintive sigh	mournful, pathetic, aching, agonized, anguished, bemoaning, bewailing, bitter, deploring, doleful,
surmount	To surpass a mountain you have to overcome a lot of difficulties	1. overcome (a difficulty or obstacle). 2. stand or be placed on top of.	His reputation is worldwide, and surmounts language barriers.	overcome, conquer, vanquish, endure, beat, best, conquer, defeat, dispatch, do down, get, get around,
escalate		increase rapidly./make or become more intense or serious.	1) a little war threatens to escalate into a huge ugly one	soar, intensify, accelerate, accumulate, appreciate, balloon, boom, build up, burgeon, climb,
denounce		publicly declare to be wrong or evil./inform against.	1) they denounced him as a bigot   2) Others might cry or get bent out of shape when their personal tastes are denounced and ridiculed, but not him …	anathematize, censure, condemn, castigate, besmirch, damn, decry, execrate, reprehend, reprobate,
foil	Netherlands made fouls to spoil Spain's plan	(v) prevent (something considered wrong or undesirable) from succeeding.(n) metal hammered or rolled into a thin flexible sheet, used chiefly for covering or wrapping food	A brave policewoman foiled the armed robbery. Aluminium foil	thwart, frustrate, counter, oppose, balk, disappoint, impede, obstruct, hamper, hinder, snooker, cripple, scotch, derail, smash, dash
deviate		depart from usual or accepted standards.		aberrant, diverge, digress, contravene, abnormal, anomalous, atypical, deviant, devious, irregular,
buoyant	It's the first time the boys board the yacht (which floats), so they are cheerful.	1. able or tending to keep afloat or rise to the top of a liquid or gas. 2. cheerful and optimistic. 3. (of an economy, business, or market) involving or engaged in much successful trade or activity.	Buoyant balloonsthe conference ended with the party in a buoyant mood.Car sales were buoyant.	cheerful, carefree, merry, blithe, ebullient, bright, canty, cheery, chipper, eupeptic,
benevolent		well meaning and kindly./(of an organization) serving a charitable rather than a profit-making purpose.	1) a benevolent donor	beneficent, benignant, compassionate, good-hearted, humane, kind, kindhearted, kindly,
intertwined		twist or twine together./connect or link (two or more things) closely.		entwine, convolute, interlace, twirl, interlaced, intermixed, interwoven, coalescent, fused, integrated, cut-and-paste, blended,
berate	If you only receive B-rating, you will be scolded	scold or criticize (someone) angrily.	1) being berated by her parents when she came home late	rebuke, reprimand, reproach, baste, bawl out, call down, castigate, chastise, chew out, dress down, flay,
quiescent	Think about “quiet state” = dormant	in a state or period of inactivity or dormancy.	1) a quiescent state	dull, inactive, inert, latent, passive, lethargic, sleepy, sluggish, torpid,
mercurial	The mercury in the thermometer can be volatile.	1. subject to sudden or unpredictable changes of mood or mind. 2. of or containing the element mercury.	mercurial twists of temperament	volatile, capricious, temperamental, excitable, fickle, changeable, unpredictable, variable, protean, mutable, erratic, quicksilver
despotic	Desperate rulers often flaunt their absolute power, acting tyranical	of or typical of a despot (absolute ruler); tyrannical.	1) a despotic government	autocratic, dictatorial, totalitarian, authoritarian, absolute, absolutist, arbitrary, unconstitutional, undemocratic, antidemocratic, uncontrolled
perpetrate	perpetrator. The food per pet rate is now so high, I couldn't afford without committing crime!	carry out or commit (a harmful, illegal, or immoral action).	The men were planning to perpetrate a robbery. The attack was perpetrated by a street gang. He vowed revenge for the crime perpetrated on his family.	execute, accomplish, achieve, bring off, carry off, carry out, commit, compass, do,
subsume	sub + sum: They can be sum (put together) under/below the same label.	include or absorb (something) in something else.	"red, green, and yellow are subsumed under the term ""color"" this creature can be subsumed in the class of reptiles"	carry, comprehend, contain, embrace, encompass, entail, include, involve,
subside	sub + side = below + settle. The water goes below the normal level and becomes less intense.	1. become less intense, violent, or severe. 2. (of water) go down to a lower or the normal level.	1) The pain/swelling will subside in a couple of hours.   2) After his anger had subsided, he was able to look at things rationally.   3) We'll have to wait until the wind/storm/rain subsides.	abate, relent, alleviate, recede, de-escalate, decline, decrease, die (away or down or out), diminish, drain (away), drop (off),
condone	Condo owners tolerate their neighbors' noisy parties, disregarding the disturbances to keep peace.	accept and allow (behavior that is considered morally wrong or offensive) to continueprove or sanction (something), especially with reluctance	The college cannot condone any behavior that involves illicit drugs. the practice is not officially condoned by any airline.	deliberately ignore, disregard, accept, allow, turn a blind eye to, overlook, connive at
tangential		diverging from a previous course or line; erratic.hardly touching a matter; peripheral or off-topicrelating to or along a tangent.	1) tangential involvement	incidental, peripheral, tangent, extraneous, immaterial, impertinent, inapplicable, inapposite,
jeopardize		put (someone or something) into a situation in which there is a danger of loss, harm, or failure.	1) a decision that could jeopardize her career   2) laws jeopardizing freedom of speech	imperil, risk, damage, adventure, compromise, endanger, gamble (with), hazard, jeopard, menace,
disinterested		1. not influenced by considerations of personal advantage. 2. having or feeling no interest in something; uninterested.	1) telling them in a disinterested voice   2) disinterested in women	apathetic, casual, complacent, incurious, indifferent, insensible, insouciant, nonchalant, unbiased, neutral, impartial, detached, objective, equitable, selfless
buttress	"Sounds like ""put stress."" We put stress on the builders to reinforce the cathedral"	1. provide (a building or structure) with buttresses. 2. increase the strength of or justification for; reinforce.	We buttressed the wall as it was showing signs of cracking and collapse.Authority was buttressed by religious belief.	prop, support, reinforce, strengthen, reinforce, fortify, support, prop up, bolster up, shore up, underpin, cement, brace, uphold, confirm, defend, maintain, back up, buoy up.
bereft	related to 'bereave'	deprived of or lacking (something).(of a person) sad and lonely, especially through someone's death or departure; bereaved	The peasantry were bereft of any opportunity for social mobility.his death in 1990 left her bereft.	bereaved, lacking, wanting, short of
frailty	noun of 'frail'	the condition of being weak and delicateweakness in character or morals.	The frailty of her health you're too self-righteous to see your own frailties.	fragile, impair, delicate, blemish, demerit, dereliction, failing, fault, foible, shortcoming, sin, vice,
disentangle		free (something or someone) from something that they are entangled with.	1) I can't disentangle [=untangle] the wires/hangers.	untwine, liberate, unknoit, untangle, ravel (out), unbraid, unlay, unravel, unsnarl, untwist,
pomposity	noun of 'pompous'	the quality of being pompous; self-importance.	He hated pomposity and disliked being called a genius.She found it difficult to talk about her achievements without sounding pompous.	bragging, arrogance, assumption, bumptiousness, consequence, haughtiness, hauteur, high horse, huffiness,
delineate	de (out) + line + ate. Describe and outline what you ate for the exact diagnosis	1. describe or portray (something) precisely. 2. indicate the exact position of (a border or boundary).	1) delineate a character in the story   2) delineate the steps to be taken by the government	describe, outline, depict, portray, define, silhouette, sketch, trace,
conclusive		of evidence or argument) having or likely to have the effect of proving a case; decisive.	1) conclusive evidence/proof	irrefutable, indisputable, certain, convincing, definitive, absolute, clear, deciding, decisive, last,
vitality		the state of being strong and active; energy.	1) the vitality of youth   2) A shopping district would bring new vitality [=life] to the downtown area.   3) Her prose is full of vitality.   4) His performance lacked vitality.	liveliness, vivacity, buoyancy, zest, animation, briskness, exuberance, jazziness, lustiness, peppiness, robustness,
steadfast		resolutely or dutifully firm and unwavering.	1) They were steadfast friends.   2) He was steadfast in his support of the governor's policies.   3) a steadfast refusal	faithful, committed, devoted, reliable, steady, constant, dedicated, devout, down-the-line, faithful, fast, good,
archetype		1. a very typical example of a certain person or thing. 2. an original which has been imitated; a prototype.	1) … the House of Commons, the archetype of all the representative assemblies which now meet …	type, prototype, stereotype, pattern, model, embodiment, quintessense, paradigm
relent	"Looks like ""rebent"" (bend back = give in)"	abandon or mitigate a severe or harsh attitude, especially by finally yielding to a request./become less severe.	1) Our application was initially refused, but the city relented in the end and the permit was issued.   2) They had refused to pay and relented only after being threatened with a lawsuit.	give in, yield, accede, acquiesce, ease up, abate, blink, bow, budge, capitulate, concede, give in, knuckle under, quit,
grievance	grief + ance. The managers express grief over the complaint about the injustice inside the factory	a real or imagined cause for complaint, especially unfair treatmentan official statement of a complaint over something believed to be wrong or unfair	Civil disorder could be the result of a real or imagined grievance.Her chief grievance was the sexual harassment by her boss.	complaint, objection, protest, quibble, atrocity, rancour, down, grudge, resentment, score,
harangue	Her anger was so intense that she made a rant about the issue, lecturing everyone	a lengthy and aggressive speech.lecture (someone) at length in an aggressive and critical manner	Without valid entry visas, they were subjected to a ten-minute harangue by two border guards.	diatribe, polemic, rant, berating, censure, castigate, jeremiad, philippic, tirade,
auspicious		conducive to success; favorable.giving or being a sign of future success.	It was not the most auspicious moment to hold an election.Such an auspicious start might have brought only honor and further triumph, but a witches' brew of scientific contentiousness, the temper of the times, and quirks in Dubois's own psyche soon derailed any pleasant development and turned Dubois's bounty into bitterness.	favourable, propitious, hopeful, optimistic, felicitous, bright, encouraging, fair, golden, heartening, hopeful, likely
yield		1. produce or provide (a natural, agricultural, or industrial product). 2.give way to arguments, demands, or pressure. 3. (of a mass or structure) give way under force or pressure.		produce, return, relent, relinquish, surrender, cede, bow, cave (in), give in, submit, succumb, surrender,
appropriate		adj - suitable or proper in the circumstances.v - take (something) for one's own use, typically without the owner's permission.v - devote (money or assets) to a special purpose	a measure appropriate to a wartime economy.his images have been appropriated by advertisers. there can be problems in appropriating funds for legal expenses	applicable, relevant, pertinent, germane, apt, becoming, befitting, felicitous, fit, fitted, fitting,
rhetoric		the art of effective or persuasive speaking or writing, especially the exploitation of figures of speech and other compositional techniques.		bombast, pomposity, hyperbole, fustian, gas, grandiloquence, hot air, oratory, verbiage, wind,
conspire	verb for conspiracy	1. make secret plans jointly to commit an unlawful or harmful act. 2. (of events or circumstances) seem to be working together to bring about a particular negative result.	all six admitted conspiring to steal carscircumstances have conspired to make an immediate share issue an unattractive option	plot, scheme, plan, intrigue, collude, connive, collaborate, consort, machinate, maneuveract together, work together, combine, join, unite, ally, join forces, cooperate
whimsical		playfully quaint or fanciful, especially in an appealing and amusing way.acting or behaving in a capricious manner.	She has a whimsical sense of humor. the whimsical arbitrariness of autocracy.	capricious, freakish, impulsive, quaint, volatile, temperamental
proxy		1. the authority to represent someone else, especially in voting. 2. a figure that can be used to represent the value of something in a calculation.	1) Since I wouldn't be available to vote, I nominated him to act as my proxy.	substitute, delegate, agent, surrogate, assignee, attorney, commissary, delegate, deputy, envoy, factor,
sparse		thinly dispersed or scattered./scanty; in short supply.	1) Reliable data is sparse.	scant, scarce, sporadic, meagre, exiguous, hand-to-mouth, light, meager, niggardly, poor, scant, scanty,
adverse		preventing success or development; harmful; unfavourable.	1) hindered by adverse winds	unfavourable, dreadful, nasty, counter, disadvantageous, hostile, inimical, negative, prejudicial, unfavorable, unfriendly,
exhort	She encourages the whole cohort to purschase the yearbook	strongly encourage or urge (someone) to do something.	1) exhorting voters to do the right thing	urge, adjure, pressurize, egg (on), encourage, goad, nudge, press, prod, prompt, urge,
poise	Sounds like point. The dancer poised on her toes, perfectly balanced at the highest point of her routine, displaying composure.	1. graceful and elegant bearing in a person. 2. be or cause to be balanced or suspended./be ready and prepared to do something.	poise and good deportment can be cultivated.In spite of this setback she retained her poise.	balance, counterpoise, equilibrium, control, equipoise, stasis,
adept		very skilled or proficient at something.		expert, proficient, talented, accomplished, ace, compleat, complete, consummate, crack, crackerjack, educated,
tedious		too long, slow, or dull; tiresome or monotonous.	1) a tedious public ceremony	arid, boring, monotonous, mundane, wearisome, colorless, drab, dreary, drudging, dry, dull,
rigor		1. the quality of being extremely thorough and careful.  2. severity or strictness.  3. harsh and demanding conditions.		diligence, meticulous, exacting, severe, rigid, adversity, asperity, difficulty, hardness, hardship,
articulate		having or showing the ability to speak fluently and coherently.		eloquent, fluent, persuasive, coherent, cogent, silver-tongued, well-spoken,
suspect		1. have an idea or impression of the existence, presence, or truth of (something) without certain proof.  2. doubt the genuineness or truth of.		reckon, accused, arrestee, defendant, detainee, fish, criminal, crook, culprit,
ploy	A cunning plot to earn advantage	a cunning plan or action designed to turn a situation to one's own advantage.	Her story about being sick is only a ploy to get you to give her money.	ruse, tactic, artifice, device, dodge, fetch, flimflam, gambit, gimmick, jig,
captious	"Sounds like ""captain."" The captain was always critical, constantly finding fault with the crew’s work."	tending to find fault or raise petty objections	The captious critic never seemed satisfied, always finding something wrong with every performance.	quibbling, fault-finding, critical
lugubrious	A loopy, gloomy bride looks mournful during her wedding with a man she doesn't love	looking or sounding sad and dismal.	We wonder why he's wearing a lugubrious expression. He's usually very cheerful. The play was good, but I fell asleep during the hero’s lugubrious monologue.	mournful, gloomy, glum, melancholy, black, bleak, cheerless, chill, Cimmerian, cloudy, cold, comfortless,
transcend		be or go beyond the range or limits of (a field of activity or conceptual sphere).surpass (a person or achievement):	music that transcends cultural boundaries She was able to transcend her own suffering and help others.	surpass, excel, outstrip, beat, better, eclipse, exceed, excel, outclass, outdistance, outdo,
flustered		make (someone) agitated or confused.	"1) She became so flustered that she'd … kept repeating, ""Gosh, I can't even think …"" Later she confided, ""I was almost in tears right after doing those numbers.""   2) The flustered lady gave me a blank stare and said, ""That's not Mr. Franklin. The guard said Mr. Franklin was on his way up.""   3) … the oxen … seemed more patient and less flustered than their masters …"	aggravated, agitated, bothered, chagrined, dismayed, disquieted, distressed, disturbed,
incidental	This incident is minor compared to other accidents. It also happens by chance.	happening as a minor accompaniment to something else.occurring by chance in connection with something else.happening as a result of (an activity).	For the fieldworker who deals with real problems, paperwork is incidental The implications of this incidental discovery. the risks necessarily incidental to a fireman's job.	secondary, subsidiary, subordinate, ancillary, auxiliary, minor, peripheral, trivial chance, accidental, random, casual, fortuitous, serendipitous, adventitious, coincidental connected with, related to, associated with,
axiomatic	axiom = general truth	self-evident or unquestionable.	1) an axiomatic truth	self-evident, unquestionable, prima facie, granted, accepted
macabre	A mascara artist creates dark looks, adding a gruesome touch to the performance.	disturbing because concerned with or causing a fear of death.	The macabre dance included a procession of skeletons.	grisly, gruesome, morbid, appalling, atrocious, horrifying, awful, dreadful, frightful, ghastly,
gullible		easily persuaded to believe something; credulous.	1) selling overpriced souvenirs to gullible tourists	credulous, impressionable, exploitable, naive, susceptible, ingenuous, trusting, unwary, wide-eyed,
ingrained		1.(of a habit, belief, or attitude) firmly fixed or established; difficult to change.  2. (of dirt or a stain) deeply embedded and thus difficult to remove.	1) ingrained prejudice	entrenched, abiding, inveterate, built-in, constitutional, constitutive, essential, hardwired, immanent, inborn, inbred,
tacit	He’s a taciturn man but his wife understand his implied words and gestures	understood or implied without being stated.	1) the blush was a tacit answer	implicit, implied, unexpressed, unstated, unspoken, unvoiced, wordless,
exorbitant		(of a price or amount charged) unreasonably high.	1) exorbitant fees/costs/prices/expenses   2) They were charged exorbitant rates for phone calls.	baroque, devilish, excessive, extravagant, extreme, fancy, immoderate, inordinate,
serene		calm, peaceful, and untroubled; tranquil.		tranquil, placid, soothing, arcadian, calm, hushed, peaceful, placid, quiet, restful, still,
treatise		a written work dealing formally and systematically with a subject.	1) a treatise on higher education	discourse, dissertation, thesis, monograph, tract, article, composition, essay, paper, theme, discourse,
corporeal		relating to a person's body, especially as opposed to their spirit.		animal, bodily, carnal, physical, corporal, fleshly, material, somatic,
figurative		1. departing from a literal use of words; metaphorical. 2. (of an artist or work of art) representing forms that are recognizably derived from life.	1) the figurative dove of peace	metaphorical, symbolic, poetic, ornate, extended, figural, metaphoric, tropical, tropological,
morose	Giving her more rose wouldn't cheer her up. She's still sullen and unhappy	sullen and ill-tempered.	He became morose and withdrawn and would not talk to anyone.	sullen, sulky, gloomy, moody, black, bleak, cheerless, chill, Cimmerian, cloudy, cold, comfortless,
fickle	A flicker of light is inconsistent and unpredictable.	changing frequently, especially as regards one's loyalties or affections.	fickle weatherWeb patrons are a notoriously fickle lot, bouncing from one site to another on a whim	capricious, changeable, mercurial, volatile, vacillating, fitful, flickery, fluctuating, fluid, inconsistent, inconstant,
ramification		a complex or unwelcome consequence of an action or event.	Any change in the contract is bound to have legal ramifications.	consequence, aftermath, outcome, sequel, implication
eclectic	From ek (out) + legere (choose, as in “select”, “elect”). It’s difficult to select my favorite candy from this diverse mix of colorful candies.	deriving ideas, style, or taste from a broad and diverse range of sources.	Her musical tastes are eclectic. The university offers an eclectic combination of electives.	broad, extensive, comprehensive, encyclopedic, diverse, assorted, heterogeneous, indiscriminate, kitchen-sink, magpie, miscellaneous, mixed, motley,
apprehension		1. anxiety or fear that something bad or unpleasant will happen. 2. understanding; grasp. 3. the action of arresting someone.	1) an atmosphere of nervous apprehension	anxiety, alarm, uneasiness, restlessness, apprehensiveness, dread, foreboding, misgiving,
idiosyncratic		relating to idiosyncrasy; peculiar or individual.		distinctive, peculiar, aberrant, eccentric, anomalous, special, identifying, characteristic, intimate, especial, express, special, specific,
insolent		showing a rude and arrogant lack of respect.	1) an insolent [=impudent, disrespectful] child   2) Insolent behavior will not be tolerated.	impertinent, impudent, audacious, bold, bold-faced, brash, brassbound, brassy, brazen,
ardent	From Latin ardere (to burn). The burning passion in his heart makes him an ardent football fan.	very enthusiastic or passionate.	1) ardent proponents of the bill   2) an ardent admirer   3) ardent fans	passionate, avid, fervent, zealous, vehement, blazing, burning, charged, demonstrative, emotional, fervent, fervid, feverish,
doctrinaire		seeking to impose a doctrine in all circumstances without regard to practical considerations.		dogmatic, opinionated, rigid, unyielding, adamant, pontifical, authoritarian, self-opinionated,
officious	That high-ranking official is so meddlesome in their subordinates' lives.	assertive of authority in a domineering way, especially with regard to trivial matters.	1) officious people who are always ready to offer unasked advice	meddlesome, dictatorial, interfering, intruding, nosy, obtrusive, bossy, domineering
cease		come or bring to an end.		close, halt, conclude, terminate, abate, dead-end, determine, die, discontinue,
lavish		bestow something in generous or extravagant quantities on.	The media couldn't lavish enough praise on the film.	baroque, devilish, excessive, exorbitant, extravagant, luxurious, sumptuous, extreme, fancy, immoderate,
conducive		making a certain situation or outcome more likely to happen or more possible	1) an atmosphere conducive to education	favourable, benificial, valuable, advantageous, opportune, propitous, promising, convenient
equanimity	equal mind = balanced mind	calmness and composure, especially in a difficult situation.	1) nothing could disturb his equanimity	aplomb, calmness, composure, phelgm, tranquil, serenity, poise, collectedness, composedness, composure, cool, coolness, countenance,
supplant	We need to substitute the plant because the others are superseding it.	supersede and replace.	DVDs have supplanted videos.	replace, supersede, displace, override, oust, overthrow, displant, relieve, replace, substitute
lampoon	Now lamps don't need spoons of oil. If you do that people will ridicule you.	publicly criticize (someone or something) by using ridicule, irony, or sarcasm.	he was mercilessly lampooned for his absurd getups.	satirize, mock, ridicule, caicaure, burlesque, parody
bombastic	These bombs are showy: their dramatic explosions are inflated.	high-sounding but with little meaning; inflated.	bombastic music that drowned out what anyone was saying.	pompous, blustering, ranting, blathering, orotund, flatulent, fustian, gaseous, gassy, grandiloquent, oratorical,
lambaste	Lam bashed the subordinates for being incompent.	criticize (someone or something) harshly.	1) The coach lambasted the team for its poor play.   2) They wrote several letters lambasting the new law.	criticize, castigate, chastice, censure, condemn, baste, bawl out, berate, call down, chastise, chew out, dress down,
undercut	My undercut is charged less than other competitors. This barber want to weaken their competition	1. offer goods or services at a lower price than (a competitor). 2. cut or wear away the part below or under (something, especially a cliff). 3. weaken; undermine.	English cloth manufacturers were able to undercut their continental rivals. The company denied that his authority was being undercut.	charge less than, charge a lower price than, undersell, underbid  undermine, weaken, impair, damage, sap, threaten, subvert, sabotage, ruin, disrupt, undo, destabilize, demolish, wreck, destroy, chip away
euphemism	From Greek eu (well) + phēmē (speaking). Euphemisms are like euphoric phemes (=words) that soften bluntness or hard truths.	a mild or indirect word or expression substituted for one considered to be too harsh or blunt when referring to something unpleasant or embarrassing./polite term	using ‘eliminate’ as a euphemism for ‘kill’	substitute, polite, code word, genteelism, nice-nellyism, expression, idiom, phrase, archaism, colloquialism,
turpitude	Behind that turbulent attitude of the villain was full of wickedness.	depraved or wicked behavior or character.	1) moral turpitude	wickedness, immorality, abjection, corruption, corruptness, debasement, debauchery, decadence, decadency, degeneracy,
peccadillo		a relatively minor fault or sin.	1) The movie star's peccadilloes made tabloid headlines.	misdemeanour, misdeed, error, fault, foible, breach, crime, debt, lawbreaking, malefaction,
antagonize		cause (someone) to become hostile.	1) His criticism antagonized his friends.	alienate, estrange,  anger, annoy, provoke, vex, irritate, offend, aggravate, embitter, empoison, envenom,
barren	Bare fields stretch out but nothing seems to grow. So lifeless.	1. (of land) too poor to produce much or any vegetation. 2. (of a place or building) bleak and lifeless.	the barren, burnt-up countryside a barren exchange of courtesies.	unproductive, infertile, unfruitful, sterile, arid, desert, waste, desolate, uncultivatablepointless, futile, worthless, profitless, valueless, unrewarding, purposeless, useless, vain, aimless
philistine	That pristine man was so uncultured that he thought the Philistines would enjoy his crude art.	a person who is hostile or indifferent to culture and the arts.	I am a complete philistine when it comes to paintings.	lowbrow, materialist, boor, tasteless, uncultured, barbaric,
relegate	She felt like she was downgraded to the low gate of the office	assign an inferior rank or position to.	They aim to prevent women from being relegated to a secondary role.	downgrade, putdown, consign, degrade, declass banish, deport, displace, exile, expatriate, transport,
dirge	Dire news came with a lament for the mourning crowd	a lament for the dead, especially one forming part of a funeral rite.	a funeral dirge	elegy, lament, requiem, threnody, monody
imperturbable	im + perturb + able (unshakable). Nothing could disturb her so she remained unshakable and calm	unable to be upset or excited; calm.	1) Although he seems outwardly imperturbable, he can get very angry at times.   2) an imperturbable demeanor/disposition	composed, calm, nerveless, unflappable, unshakable, placid, tranquil, serene
excoriate	From Latin ex- (out, off) + corium (skin). Excoriating him for such a small mistake is no different from peeling off his skin for a minor scratch.	criticize (someone) severely.remove part of the surface of (the skin).	1) He was excoriated as a racist.   2) The candidates have publicly excoriated each other throughout the campaign.	criticize, censure, condemn, assail, attack, bash, belabor, blast, castigate, jump (on),abrade, abuse, scrape
curmudgeon	A curmudgeon is likely to CURse you, throw MUD on your face and then lock you in a dunGEON.	a bad-tempered person, especially an old one.	1) a lonely old curmudgeon	crank, bear, bellyacher, complainer, crab, crank, croaker, crosspatch, fusser,
swindle		use deception to deprive (someone) of money or possessions.		defraud, deceit, exploit, fleece, dupe, delude, bunco, con, fiddle, flimflam, fraud, gyp, hustle, scam,
wheedle	The weasel tried to coax the farmer to give it some cheese	use flattery or coaxing in order to persuade someone to do something or give one something.	1) He wheedled quite a bit of money from her.   2) We managed to wheedle the juicy details out of him.	coax, cajole, inveigle, lure, induce, entice, beguile, flatter, blandish, blarney, palaver, soft-soap, sweet-talk,
sentimental		of or prompted by feelings of tenderness, sadness, or nostalgia.	1) He has a sentimental attachment to his old high school.   2) She saved her wedding gown for sentimental reasons.   3) He has sentimental ideas about the past.	nostalgic, tender, emotional, affectionate, mawkish, cloying, chocolate-box, cloying, corny, drippy, fruity, gooey, lovey-dovey, maudlin,
miscreant	That miss commits crimes	a person who has done something wrong or unlawful.	The principal took the miscreant out of my classroom and placed him in the in-school suspension room.The church installed cameras outside in hopes of catching the miscreant who was vandalizing the building.	criminal, culprit, malefactor, offender, convict, outlaw, baddie, beast, brute, caitiff, devil, evildoer, fiend, heavy,
implacable	im + placate + able	unable to be appeased or placated.	he was their most implacable critic.	unappeasable, unsparing, intransigent, adamant, determined, ruthless, relentless, bullheaded, dogged, hard, hard-nosed, hardened, hardheaded,
haughty	The hot tea spilled over her snobbish and arrogant demeanor	arrogantly superior and disdainful.	Some aristocrats feigned smiles, others looked away with haughty contempt	arrogant, snobbish, pompous, egoistical, supercilious, condescending, scornful, assumptive, bumptious, cavalier, chesty, high-and-mighty, high-handed, high-hat,
estimable	The esteemed professor is highly respected for her admirable work in the field.	worthy of great respect.	Natural history programmes have many estimable qualities but excitement isn't often one of them	admirable, applaudable, commendable, creditable, laudable, meritorious, praiseworthy,
tangible		perceptible by touch./clear and definite; real.		palpable, touchable, material, physical, substantial, corporeal, discernible
chary	Cherry growers are wary of the new GMO seeds.	cautiously or suspiciously reluctant to do something.	most people are chary of allowing themselves to be photographed.	wary, cautious, circumspect, heedful, careful, guarded, mindful, watchful
repugnant	From re- (reverse) + pugnare (fight). The garbage has a repugnant odor, so disgusting that it fights with her aromatic room.	1. extremely distasteful; unacceptable. 2. in conflict or incompatible with.	The thought of going back into that family who abandoned him was repugnant to him.	combative, abhorrent, abominable, appalling, belligerent, contentious, awful, disgusting, distasteful, dreadful, evil,
xenophobic		having or showing a dislike of or prejudice against people from other countries.	The attacks have been described by police as racist and xenophobic.	nationalist, patriotic, chauvinist, racist,  antiforeign, anti-immigrant, nativist, nativistic, intolerant, bigoted, parochial, insular,
squander		1.waste (something, especially money or time) in a reckless and foolish manner. 2. allow (an opportunity) to pass or be lost.		waste, misuse, dissipate, blow, misspend, splurge, fiddle away, fritter (away), lavish, lose, run through,
cajole	Cajun jokes often coax people into agreeing with them.	persuade (someone) to do something by sustained coaxing or flattery.	1) had to cajole them into going	coax, wheedle, beguille, lure, blandish, blarney, coax, palaver, soft-soap, sweet-talk, wheedle,
unalloyed	Uncle Lloyd always remains pure and absolutely genuine in his advice.	1. (of metal) not alloyed; pure. 2. (chiefly of emotions) complete and unreserved.	Initially, the tubes were made of unalloyed copper. Oftentimes, the poet strips images to their bare, essential core, and employs a terse and unalloyed prose style.	absolute, fine, neat, plain, pure, purified, refined, straight,
heady	Her head is dizzy after all the intoxicating alcohol and intense thoughts after her breakup.	1. having a strong or exhilarating effect. 2. (of alcoholic drink) potent; intoxicating.	she felt heady with excitement. several bottles of heady local wine.	intoxicating, exhilarating, thrilling, invigorating, galvanizing, ecstatic, elated, elevated, enrapt, enraptured, entranced, euphoric, exhilarated,
exigent	You need to exit urgently, the analyst said in a demanding tone.	pressing; demanding.	the exigent demands of the music took a toll on her voice.	instant, exacting, acute, burning, clamant, compelling, critical, crying, dire, emergent,
quibble	Quick arguments over tiny details can turn into petty disputes.	a slight criticism about a trivial matter; adverse comment; nitpicking	The only quibble about this book is the price.They are always quibbling about the amount they are prepared to pay.	protest, argument, grumple, grouse, gripe, niggle, grouch, nitpick, carp, cavil, fuss
gauche		lacking ease or grace; unsophisticated and socially awkward; inelegant; ungainly	She grew from a gauche teenager into a poised young woman.	awkward, clumsy, graceless, inelegant, rough-hewn, rustic, stiff, stilted,io
wily	Wildly clever foxes use sly tricks to outsmart hunters, showing their cunning nature.	skilled at gaining an advantage, especially deceitfully; clever; shrewd, crafty	1) a wily negotiator	shrewd, astute, canny, smart, artful, beguiling, cagey, crafty, cunning, cute, designing, devious, deceptive,
sophistry	Sophisticated arguments in debates often use deceptive reasoning to confuse opponents.	the use of fallacious arguments, especially with the intention of deceiving;	Trying to argue that I had benefited in any way from the disaster was pure sophistry.	specious reasoning, sophism, casuistry, quibbling, equivocation, fallaciousness
agitated		feeling or appearing troubled or nervous; perturbed; flustered; unnerved; ruffled; rattled	1) When Caswall asked him to describe what he had seen …, he got very agitated …   2) was so agitated she could hardly speak	flustered, upset, ruffled, troubled, anxious, excited, feverish, frenzied, heated, hectic, hyperactive, overactive, overwrought,
quarantined		isolated		segregated, separated, sequestered, cloistered, disassociated, hermetic, insulated, isolate,
coy	The koi fish in the pond are reserved and pretend to hide whenever you get close.	(especially with reference to a woman) making a pretense of shyness or modesty that is intended to be alluringreluctant to give details, especially about something regarded as sensitive	She treated him to a coy smile of invitation. He is coy about his age.	simpering, flirtatious, kittenish, skittish, shy, modest, reticent, bashful, timid, demure, diffident
hysterical	History shows that people often get overwhelmed during major events, feeling extremely emotional	deriving from or affected by uncontrolled extreme emotion; overwrought; unrestrained; frenzied; (informal) extremely funny	1) hysterical conditions	emotional, uncontrolled, frenzied, frantic, feverish, berserk, antic, chucklesome, comedic, comic, comical, droll, farcical, funny,
recant	Being threatened by the employee, the boss promise to really cancel the previous performance review.	say that one no longer holds an opinion or belief, especially one considered heretical	He was charged with heresy, refused to recant, and was put to death. Galileo was forced to recant his assertion that the earth orbited the sun.	change one's mind, be apostate, defect, renege retract, take back, withdraw, disclaim, disown, recall, unsay.
quandary	From Latin quando (when); think: quand + ary as when (to) marry. When to marry is a dilemma for many couples	a state of perplexity or uncertainty over what to do in a difficult situation; a practical dilemma; impasse; stalemate	The unexpected results of the test have created a quandary for researchers. He was in a quandary about which candidate to choose.	dilemma, predicament, impasse, confusion, double bind,
affront	ad + front = to the face = insult	an action or remark that causes outrage or offense; insult; offense; offend the modesty or values of	he took his son's desertion as a personal affront she was affronted by his familiarity.	insult, offend, outrage, mortify, provoke, slight, hurt, pique, wound, irk, displease, distress, bother, rankle, needle, vex, gall, scandalize, disgust, disgruntle
endemic	in + demo: belong to + (a group of) people	(of a disease or social condition) found particularly in a specific area or group; endemic < epidemic < pandemic(of a plant or animal) native and restricted to a certain place	Areas where malaria is endemic.A marsupial endemic to northeastern Australia.	aboriginal, autochthonous, born, domestic, indigenous, native,
abstract		consider (something) theoretically or separately from something else; extract or remove (something); used euphemistically to say that stolen something; (abstract oneself) withdraw		conceptual, ideal, ideational, intellectual, academic, conjectural, speculative, metaphysical, notional, theoretical, extract, withdraw, remove, isolate
burnish	She polishes the kettle	polish (something, especially metal) by rubbingenhance or perfect (something such as a reputation or a skill)	To burnish copper, I would probably use a drill with a pad attached to the end.a man who took advantage of any opportunity to burnish his image.	gloss, luminance, luster, polish, sheen, shine,
disperse		break up; split up; dissipate; scatter; go into different direction	1) police dispersed the crowd	scatter, disseminate, diffuse, dispel, banish, disassemble, dissipate, dissolve, scatter,
enmity	noun for 'enemy'	the state or feeling of being actively opposed or hostile to someone or something; animosity; antipathy; animus; feud; discord; acrimony	1) There's a long history of enmity between them.   2) His comments earned him the enmity of his coworkers.   1) We need to put aside old enmities for the sake of peace.	animosity, antagonism, antipathy, opposition, conflict, rancour, bad blood, bitterness, gall, grudge,
retiring		shy and fond of being on one's own; diffident, shrinking; self-effacing; unassuming	A shy, retiring young woman	shy, diffident, bashful, self-effacing, shrinking, unassuming, unassertive, reserved, reticent, quiet, timid, timorous, nervous, modest,
ravage	I tried to salvage the date but you had to ravage it	cause severe and extensive damage to	Fears that a war could ravage their country.	destroy, devastate, ruin, scourge, demolish, plunder, despoil
inchoate	In the choir’s early rehearsal, the initial songs were rudimentary and incoherent.	just begun and so not fully formed or developed; rudimentaryconfused or incoherent	a still inchoate democracy. an inchoate mess of ideas	rudimentary, aborning, budding, inceptive, incipient, nascent,
impudent	Looks like imp-udent (impatient student). The impatient student was impertinent to their teacher.	not showing due respect for another person; impertinent; brazen; cheeky; presumptuous	The boy was punished for his impudent behavior/attitude. an impudent [=insolent, disrespectful] soldier	impertinent, audacious, arch, audacious, bold, bold-faced, brash, brassbound, brassy, brazen,
redoubtable	We cannot doubt a formidable and fearsome knight in battle	(of a person) formidable, especially as an opponent; fearsome; awe-inspiring	1) a redoubtable [=formidable] warrior   2) There is a new biography of the redoubtable Winston Churchill.	formidable, fearsome, daunting, alarming, dire, direful, dread, dreadful, fearful, fearsome, forbidding,
shrill	shriek was piercing and high-pitched	high-pitched; piercing; screeching	A shrill laugh	howl, scream, screech, piercing, sharp, strident, shriek, squall, squeal, yell, yelp,
deprecate	Deprecated software is deplored by users for being useless	express disapproval of; frown on; object to	1) deprecates such attempts at humor	deplore, abhor, execrate, despise, condemn, denounce, bad-mouth, belittle, cry down, decry, denigrate, depreciate, derogate, diminish,
disdain		scorn; deride; regard with contempt; sneer at; spurn; rebuff		contempt, scorn, disrespect, arrogance, disgust, contemptuousness, despisement, despite, despitefulness, misprision, scorn,
quash	Sounds like squash. She squashed the rumors with one firm statement.	1. reject or void, especially by legal procedure 2. put an end to; suppress	The judge quashed the defendant's appeal, upholding the original verdict A hospital executive quashed rumors that nursing staff will lose jobs.	cancel, rescing, revoke, retract, disallow, override end, finish, crush, curb, thwart, subdue, abolish, annihilate
distend	Disciplined gymnasts tend to avoid foods that can bloat their stomachs.	swell or cause to swell by pressure from inside; bulge; enlarge; puff out/up; blow up/out	the abdomen distended rapidlyair is introduced into the stomach to distend it.	swell, bloat, bulge, dilate, inflate, enlarge, stretched, accelerate, add (to), aggrandize, amplify, augment,
penchant	She has many a pen and a chant, showing her strong liking for writing and singing.	a strong or habitual liking for something or tendency to do something	He has a penchant for adopting stray dogs.	preference, fond, liking, relish, partiality, affection, affinity, aptitude, bent, bias, bone, devices, disposition,
abeyance	A bay holds ships temporarily, so their departure is in suspension.	a state of temporary disuse or suspension	Matters were held in abeyance pending further inquiries.	suspension, reserve, pending, postponed, deferred, unresolved cold storage, deep freeze, doldrums, dormancy, holding pattern, latency, moratorium, quiescence,
august	King Augustus is venerable	worthy of respect, venerable, majestic	1) her august lineage   2) an august mansion	distinguished, respected, eminent, venerable, hallowed, illustrious, prestigious, renowned, celebrated, honored, acclaimed, esteemed, exalted, highly regarded
substantiate	give substance to (an argument)	provide evidence to support or prove the truth of	He offered no evidence to substantiate his claim. none of the allegations were ever substantiated	prove, give proof of, show to be true, give substance to, support, uphold, back up, bear out, justify, vindicate, validate, corroborate, verify, authenticate, confirm, endorse, give credence to, lend weight to, establish, demonstrate
husband		1. spouse; man in marriage  2. use economically; preserve resources	1. she husbanded their financial resources through difficult times 2. she and her husband are both retired	partner, man, mate, groom, better half conserve, preserve, safeguard, reserve, hoard
color	The politician colored his speech to subtly influence the audience, shading the truth to suit his agenda.	1. red, blue, green, etc.  2. influence, especially negatively; distort	The experience has colored her existence	cast, hue, shade, tincture, tinge, tint, tone,
affect		1. influence; have an effect  2. pretend; fake; feign		upset, trouble, overwhelm, damage, agitate pretent, feign, sham, fabricate
shape		1. triangle; circle; square  2. influence; have an effect		form, appearance, structure, condition, state, fettle, form, health determine, create, mould, model, cast, frame
cow	The cow intimidates him	1. large, friendly mammal that eats grass  2. intimidate; scare someone	The intellectuals had been cowed into silence.	intimidate, daunt, bully, badger, dragoon, tyrannize, dismay, subdue, terrorize
champion	A champion is not just a winner but also someone who advocates for others.	to support or defend a cause	She championed the rights of the underprivileged.	advocate, defend, promote
row		1. thing you do to move a small boat  2. huge fight or argument		reprimand, argument, contretemp, dissension, contention, rebuke, lambasting, reproval, censure
pan	She criticized me for buying useless pans on sales.	thing you cook with harshly criticize	The movie was panned by the critics.	skillet, saucepan, containercriticize, censure, attack, lambast, condemn
wanting	She want to pass the test, but her knowledge was wanting (lacking)	lacking in a certain required or necessary quality	Her knowledge of history is wanting.	deficient, lacking, inadequate
telling		1. speaking; giving information  2. revealing; striking	1) the most telling evidence	revealing, significant, persuasive, forceful, striking, potent, cogent
qualify		[no object] be entitled to a particular benefit or privilege by fulfilling a necessary condition[with object] make (a statement or assertion) less absolute; add reservations to	they do not qualify for compensation payments.she felt obliged to qualify her first short answer	be eligible, meet the requirements; be entitled to, be allowed, be permittedmodify, limit, make conditional, restrict, add reservations to, add to
check		examine (something) in order to determine its accuracy, quality, or condition, or to detect the presence of somethingstop or slow down the progress of something; curb or restrain	a simple blood test to check for anemia.efforts were made to check the disease.	examine, inspect, look over, scrutinize, investigate, probehalt, stop, arrest, obstruct, hamper, impede, inhibit, frustrate, prevent, limit
flag		1. a symbol of national pride  2. mark something for attention		banner, standard, ensign, pennant, emblem, pendant indicate, identify, pickout, pointout, label
involved		1. included in something; participating  2. complicated; difficult to understand	1) unable to identify those who were involved   2) She was involved in a lawsuit.	require, ndemand, entail, include, implicate, associate, embroil complicated, intricate, elaborate, confused, jumbled, tortuous
novel		1. a lengthy fictional story  2. new; innovative		book, tale, narrative, romance new, original, unusual, unorthodox, innovative, pioneering, trailblazing, revolutionary, exotic
harbor		1. a place to put boats and ships  2. have a thought or secret in mind; provide shelter		port, dock, boatyard nurture, cherish, possess, maintain, shelter, conceal
maintain		1. keep in good condition  2. state strongly; assert	1) maintain machinery	conserve, keep up, preserve, perpetuate, sustain, retain declare, assert, protest, aver, affirm, profess, allege, contend,
hedge		limit or qualify a statement		barricade, barrier, fence, wall, sorround, enclose, confine, restrict, obstruct, impede, insure
becoming		1. turning into something  2. polite; decorous	1) That jacket is very becoming on you.   2) She's had her hair cut in a becoming new style.	grow, turn into applicable, appropriate, apt, befitting, felicitous, fit, fitted, fitting,
wax	>< wane	1. stuff inside candles  2. become larger or stronger	His anger waxed after he heard about that adultery story.	candle wax, body wax grow, develop, expand, magnify, escalate, intensify, enlarge
object		1. a thing  2. disagree with; disapprove of		thing, article, item, piece, gadget, entity oppose, objection, demur, condemn
stem		1. part of a plant  2. come from something; originate from		trunk, cane come from, derived from
key		1. thing used to open a lock or door  2. very important; central to		answer, solution, clue,  crucial, central, essential, fundamental, pivotal, critical, dominant
counter		1. a device used to keep track of numbers  2. challenge; go against 3. cash counter		contradict, deflect, repel, combat, gainsay, confute
buckle	If you don’t buckle your seat belt, you might collapse in an accident.	a hook used to combine other things bend; collapse	He buckled his beltThe bridge started shaking and then it began to buckle	fasten, hook, strap, secure, clasp, clip cave (in), collapse, crumple, founder, give, go, go out, implode,
fell		"past tense of ""fall"" knock down"	Corruption that felled the financial system in Thailand	drop, plummet, dip, sink, plunge, descend, collapse, surrender, declineknock down, knock over, level, mow (down),
axe		1. thing used to chop wood  2. end or cancel suddenly		hatchet, cleaver, chopper cancel, withdraw, drop, abandon, terminate
afford		1. have enough money  2. provide or supply something	1) You can't afford to neglect your health.	manage, bear, sustain provide, supply, present, offer, give, bestow, furnish, render, grant
pressing		1. applying pressure to something  2. requiring immediate attention; urgent	1) a pressing issue	pinch, force, compress, clasp, depress, squeeze acute, burning, clamant, compelling, critical, crying, dire, emergent,
promulgate	Sounds like “promote gate.” The government decided to promulgate the new law, promoting it widely to open the gate for public awareness.	promote or make widely known (an idea or cause).put (a law or decree) into effect by official proclamation	These objectives have to be promulgated within the organization.In January 1852 the new Constitution was promulgated.	publicize, spread, communicate, propagate, disseminate, circulate, broadcast, promote, announce, proclaimput into effect, enact, implement, enforce, pass.
blemish		a small mark or flaw which spoils the appearance of somethinga moral defect or fault		faulty, deformed, imperfect, damaged, deficient, disgrace
succinct		briefly and clearly expressed	use short, succinct sentences	concise, brief, crisp, laconic, pithy
docile		ready to accept control or instruction; submissive.		compliant, obedient, pliant, dutiful, submissive, meek, cooperative
torpid	The torch in the Cupid’s hand is shaking because he’s lethargic	mentally or physically inactive; lethargic	We lay torpid in the heat	lethargic, torporific, inert, sluggish, somnolent, fatigued, apathetic
flippant	She flipped an ant (flippant) when she really should have been teaching them a serious science lesson.	not showing a serious or respectful attitude.	People make flippant remarks in conversation, which could be interpreted as obscene or menacing, but which are quickly forgotten and cause no concern	frivolous, shallow, glib, facetious, impudent, sassy
brusque	Sounds like brute. That brute is curt since he's not educated like a noble; he only fought on the battlefields.	abrupt or offhand in speech or manner.	She could be brusque and impatient	curt, abrupt, blunt, brisk, peremptory, caustic, abrasive
facile	The explanation looks too facil (=easy) to be true. It might be too simplistic.	(especially of a theory or argument) appearing neat and comprehensive only by ignoring the true complexities of an issue; superficial(especially of success in sports) easily achieved; effortless	That's too facile of an explanation. He achieved a facile six-lengths victory.	simplistic, superficial, oversimple, oversimplified, schematic,
mettle		a person's ability to cope well with difficulties; spirit and resilience.		fortitude, tenacity, determination, gallantry, resilience
melancholy		a feeling of pensive sadness, typically with no obvious cause.		desolation, woe, dejection, gloom, lugubrious
aberrant	You will never see a bare Asian. It’s atypical	departing from an accepted standard.	1. this somewhat aberrant behaviour requires an explanation	deviant, diverge, atypical, anomalous, digress, rogue, peculiar, eccentric
quintessence		the most perfect or typical example of a quality or class.the aspect of something regarded as the intrinsic and central constituent of its character		exemplar, prototype, epitome, embodiment, personification
propitious	Looks like proper + gracious. Proper planning and gracious dress work favorable for a picnic date.	giving or indicating a good chance of success; favourable.	The timing for such a meeting seemed propitious.	auspicious, favourable, fortunate, optimistic, beneficial
germane	German history is always relevant to understanding European culture.	relevant to a subject under consideration.	Those factors are not germane to the present discussion.	relevant, pertinent, apt, appropose, appropriate, suitable
meager	Mice eager for even tiny bits of food in the thin and scanty crumbs.	(of something provided or available) lacking in quantity or quality.(of a person or animal) lean; thin.	They were forced to supplement their meager earnings with overtime pay	inadequate, scant, limited, modest, insufficient, negligible,
vehement	In very heated arguments, people show intense feelings.	showing strong feeling; forceful, passionate, or intense.	Parents are vehement in their support for the school, as long as their kids are doing well academically.	passionate, ardent, heated, spirited, fervent, emphatic, vigorous, intense, zealous violent, fierce, forceful, fanatical, clamorous
coax		gently and persistently persuade (someone) to do something.obtain something from (someone) by gentle and persistent persuasion.	You have to coax some of the children to speak.	persuade, wheedle, cajole, beguille, flatter, inveigle
demure	The deer murmurs sofly, being modest to avoid being preyed on.	reserved, modest, and shy (typically used of a woman).	Antonia was pensive and demure	modest, meek, reserved, quiet, diffident, reticent, timorous, timid
doctrine	The doctor tries to teach us some healthy beliefs	a belief or set of beliefs held and taught by a Church, political party, or other group.		belief, creed, teaching, dogma, conviction, principle, notion, precept, ideology
acute		(of an unpleasant or unwelcome situation or phenomenon) present or experienced to a severe or intense degree.		severe, critical, drastic, dire, dreadful, terrible, awful, serious, profound, desperate, perilous astute, shrewd, sharp, canny, perceptive, discerning
ominous	The threatening clouds overhead is the omen for looming storm.	giving the worrying impression that something bad is going to happen; threateningly inauspicious.	There were ominous dark clouds gathering overhead.	threatening, menacing, baleful, sinister, doomy, unpropitious, unfavourable, gloomy, dire
detente	When nations detain each other less, they will achieve more peace and reconciliation	the easing of hostility or strained relations, especially between countries.	His proposal for détente is seen by my government as a sign that we can reach a broad international understanding	approchement, cooperation, reconciliation, reconcilement, understanding
outlandish	Outside the land are strange places with bizarre creatures.	looking or sounding bizarre or unfamiliar.	Many of your more bizarre or outlandish schemes will come to fruition.	weird, quirky, bizarre, eccentric, peculiar, anomalous, atypical
abscond	They were absent for a second, then quickly fled the scene to avoid being arrested	leave hurriedly and secretly, typically to escape from custody or avoid arrest.	She absconded with the remaining thousand dollars.	run away, escape, bolt, clear out, flee, disappear, vanish, slip away, steal away, sneak away
imbroglio	The actors found themselves embroiled in a predicament	an extremely confused, complicated, or embarrassing situation.	They've barely managed to disengage from a lethal imbroglio, and look set to quit while they're still ahead.	complex, predicament, plight, muddle, quandary
languish	Your ability of languages weaken over time if not practiced, causing them to waste away in obscurity.	(of a person, animal, or plant) lose or lack vitality; grow weak.suffer from being forced to remain in an unpleasant place or situation	plants may appear to be languishing simply because they are dormanthe has been languishing in jail since 1974.	weaken, deteriorate, decline, wither, wilt, fade, waste away, rot, decay, wither away, molder,
nimble	A ninja swiftly jumps over the bamboo, being so quick and agile	quick and light in movement or action; agile	her mind was so nimble and she was so quick to learnwith a deft motion of her nimble fingers	agile, lithe, acrobatic, active, flexible, deft, adroit, dexterous, astute, quick
prurient	A prudent person would not orient towards overly salacious behavior, keeping their minds pure.	having or encouraging an excessive interest in sexual matters, especially the sexual activity of others.	she'd been the subject of much prurient curiosity	salacious, licentious, lecherous, lustful, lewd, libidinous, lubricious, debauched, dissolute, degenerate
bawdy	Boys often make indecent or even ribald body jokes during recess that made everyone uncomfortable	dealing with sexual matters in a comical way; humorously indecent.	Her work is characterized by irreverence and bawdy humor	ribald, indecent, risqué, racy, suggestive, titillating, naughty, improper, indelicate, indecorous, pornographic, obscene, vulgar, crude, coarse, lewd, smutty, unseemly, salacious, prurient, lascivious, licentious
croon	Crow sings softly at dawn, making a murmuring sound as it croons.	hum or sing in a soft, low voice, especially in a sentimental manner.	1. she was crooning to the child 2. Goodbye, you lovely darling, she crooned	hum, quaver, warble, sing softly
aspersion	Looks like a-speck-ion. Such an aspersion is a speck of dirty mud thrown to my reputation–a defamation.	an attack on the reputation or integrity of someone or something.	I don't think anyone is casting aspersions on you	defamation, calumny, vituperation, condemn, opprobrium, slander, lambast
nadir		the lowest or most unsuccessful point in a situation.	1. asking that question was the nadir of my career	rock-bottom, the pits
dowdy	Looks like down + dye. Feeling down by the old dye, her outfit looked unfashionable for a date.	(of a person or their clothes) unfashionable and unstylish in appearance (typically used of a woman).	She could achieve the kind of casual chic which made every other woman around her look dowdy	frumpy, outmoded, inelegant, illdressed, shabby, untidy, tacky
sadistic		deriving pleasure from inflicting pain, suffering, or humiliation on others.	1. she took a sadistic pleasure in tormenting him	callous, perverted, vicious, cruel, brutal, savage, ruthless, inhuman, merciless
echelon	Looks like e-che-lawn. The executive stood on the edge of the chair, looking over the lawn where the lower ranks worked, contemplating his rise to the echelon of the company.	a level or rank in an organization, a profession, or society.	the upper echelons of the business world	grade, rank, step, stratum, position, sector
depose	They dispose of the deposed king's old throne to show he's been overthrown	remove from office suddenly and forcefullytestify to or give (evidence) under oath, typically in a written statement	He had been deposed by a military coupEvery affidavit shall state which of the facts deposed to are within the deponent's knowledge	overthrow, topple, dethrone, supplant, displace, expel,  testify, attest, undertake, assert, profess, aver, claim
apogee	The apple tree has the most ripe apple at the top	the highest point in the development of something; a climax or culmination.	A film which was the apogee of German expressionist cinema	climax, pinnacle, peak, zenith, crest, vertex, culmination
ennui	I’m annoyed with this boredom	a feeling of listlessness and dissatisfaction arising from a lack of occupation or excitement.	He succumbed to ennui and despair	boredom, lethargy, lassitude, listlessness, languor, weariness, enervation, melancholy,
collude	The two college dudes are secretly planning to conspire together.	cooperate in a secret or unlawful way in order to deceive or gain an advantage over others.	he accused his opponents of colluding with one another	conspire, connive, intrigue, plot, collaborate, cabal
conviction	Her convincing speech led to a people's firm belief in her cause.	a formal declaration by the verdict of a jury or the decision of a judge in a court of law that someone is guilty of a criminal offense.a firmly held belief or opinions		belief, opinion, persuation, stance, dogma, sentence
conflagration	"From Latin con- + flagrare (to blaze, as in ""flagrant""). The rebels threw the national flag inside the blazing fire."	an extensive fire which destroys a great deal of land or property.	tinder-dry conditions sparked fears of a conflagration in many drought-devastated communities	fire, blaze, flame, inferno, holocaust
chagrin	Cha's grin faded quickly as soon as his mistakes were pointed out, leaving him only annoyance.	a feeling of being disappointed or annoyed	To his chagrin, his son chose to become an actor	annoyance, irritation, vexation, exasperation, displeasure, pique, spleen, crossness, anger, rage, fury, wrath
contretemps	contre (contrast, against) + temps (time). She had minor disagreements against timetables made by strict teachers	a minor dispute or disagreement.	She had occasional contretemps with her staff	argument, quarrel, squabble, dissension, tiff, mishap
commiserate	com + miser + ate = feel misery together. The miser who feel everyone's pain is always ready to sympathize with them.	express or feel sympathy or pity; sympathize.	she went over to commiserate with Rose on her unfortunate circumstances	comfort, console, solace, appease, allay, assuage
zenith		the time at which something is most powerful or successful.		high point, height, peak, pinnacle, apex, apogee, vertex, crown, climax, culmination, meridian
fulcrum	The full weight on the crumpled board balances on the pivot point. It’s a full crux, an important point	the point against which a lever is placed to get a purchase, or on which it turns or is supporteda thing that plays a central or essential role in an activity, event, or situation.	research is the fulcrum of the academic community	pivot
expatiate	not expatRiate. Experts love to elaborate on their subjects, often becoming verbose	speak or write in detail about.	She expatiated on working-class novelists	hold forth about, pontificate about, discourse on, expound, dwell on; expand on, enlarge on, elaborate on,
jocund	The joke made everyone feel jovial and cheerful.	cheerful and light-hearted.	A jocund wedding party	cheerful, happy, jolly, merry, bright, glad, sunny, joyful, joyous, lighthearted, exuberant, ebullient, elated, gleeful, breezy, airy, cheery, sprightly, jaunty, animated, radiant, smiling, grinning, laughing, mirthful, frolicsome
fraught	From Middle English fraught (load with freight). The sailor was distraught about the storm ahead, as the ship was filled with heavy freight.	(of a situation or course of action) filled with or likely to result in (something undesirable).causing or affected by anxiety or stress	Marketing any new product is fraught with dangerThere was a fraught silence	full of, swarming with, rife with, thick with, bristling with, loaded with, brimful of, brimming withanxious, worried, distraught, agitated, frantic, stressed, hassled
contemporary	Comes from con (with) + temp (time). The art exhibit was so current that it compared directly with timely news.	living or occurring at the same time.	She is a contemporary artist, known for her modern style.	modern, current, present-day, up-to-date, concurrent
condescend	The queen consort descends the staircase, looking down on other people at the ball as a superior.	show that one feels superior; be patronizing.do something in such a way as to emphasize that one clearly regards it as below one's dignity or level of importance.	1. take care not to condescend to your reader	patronize, look down, spercilious, snobbish, scornful, disdainful, imperious, deign, stoop, descend
slovenly	Looks like Slovenia. In Slovenia farms, you sometimes see untidy people starting anew	(especially of a person or their appearance) untidy and dirty.	1. slovenly speech 2. a fat, slovenly ex-rock star	scruffy, messy, rumpled, frowzy, careless, haphazard
factious	Disputes can make factions even more divisive	relating or inclined to dissension.	He had transformed a fragmented, factious resistance movement into a monolithic one	divided, sectarian, schismatic, dissenting, contentious, discordant, turbulent, dissident, mutinous
spurn	"Looks like ""spur on."" Only money can spur him on to work. He scorns anything else."	reject with disdain or contempt.	He spoke gruffly, as if afraid that his invitation would be spurned	refuse, decline, scorn, repudiate, disdain, repulse, despise, slight, disown
callow	His shallow understanding of the subject shows that he is inexperienced.	(of a young person) inexperienced and immature.	earnest and callow undergraduates	immature, inexperienced, naive, adolescent, jejune, guileless, artless, juvenile
flagrant	A patriotic flag rants outrageously about the blatant absence of other flags on the national holiday.	(of an action considered wrong or immoral) conspicuously or obviously offensive.	It's a flagrant violation of the law	blatant, obvious, overt, conspicuous, brazen, audacious, unconcealed, manifest, plapable, utter
remuneration	reward money. They're rewarded money as compensation in work.	money paid for work or a service.	they work in excess of their contracted hours for no additional remunerationit's a demanding job which deserves adequate remuneration	payment, salary, wages, stipend, reward
bravado		a bold manner or a show of boldness intended to impress or intimidate.	1. he possesses none of the classic wheeler-dealer's casual bravado	bold, swagger, bluster, bombast, boast
obstreperous	The obstinate trepasser was even loudly unruly when breaking in	noisy and difficult to control.	The boy is cocky and obstreperous	disruptive, unruly, rebellious, mutinous, turbulent, boisterousm voiciferous
temerity	Our team has merits, so we don't mind their audacity	excessive confidence or boldness; audacity.	1. no one had the temerity to question his conclusions	audacity, nerve, impudence, impertinence, gall, presumptuous, daring
odious	His odour shocked us. It was repulsive to him and anyone who came near.	extremely unpleasant; repulsive. (noun: odium)	the odious methods they had used to suppress dissent.	revolting, repellent, repugnant, offensive, abhorrent, abominable, appalling, noxious
deportment	The acting department concerns about an actor's posture.	the way a person stands and walks, particularly as an element of etiquette.	1. poise is directly concerned with good deportment	posture, carriage, stance, attitude, appearance, behaviour, conduct, manners, etiquette
precocious	Pre-school, they coach us to develop early our gifted talent	(of a child) having developed certain abilities or inclinations at an earlier age than is usual or expected.(of a plant) flowering or fruiting earlier than usual.	a precocious talent for computing	ahead, forward, mature, gifted, talented, smart
abide		accept or act in accordance with (a rule, decision, or recommendation).	1. I said I would abide by their decision 2. if there is one thing I cannot abide it is a lack of discipline	obey, follow, uphold, accept, tolerate, endure, support, brook, handle
verve	"From Latin ""verba"" (verbal). The performer was so full of vigor that he infused every word with verve."	vigor and spirit or enthusiasm.	Kollo sings with supreme verve and flexibility	vigor, vitality, vivacity, buoyancy, ebullience, fervor, zeal, relish, ardor,
intrigue	Looks like in-tree, sounds like in-trick. In that tree house, the children devise intriguing tricks to fascinate their parents	arouse the curiosity or interest of; fascinate.make secret plans to do something illicit or detrimental to someone	I was intrigued by your questionThe delegates were intriguing for their own gains	fascinate, attract, tempt, tantalize, charm, captivate, titillate, compelling, enthralling,plot, conspire, scheme, connive, collude, cabal, machinate
fallow	The energy of the diligent farmer falls low enough to leave his fields unplowed and inactive.	(of farmland) ploughed and harrowed but left for a period without being sown in order to restore its fertility or to avoid surplus production.	1. incentives for farmers to let land lie fallow 2. long fallow periods when nothing seems to happen	uncultivated, untilled, unsown, dormant, resting, neglected, inactive, slack, idle, inert, stagnant, barren
tenuous	From Latin tenuis (thin) + ous.	very weak or slight.	1. the tenuous link between interest rates and investment 2. a tenuous cloud	slight, flimsy, negligible, fragile, weak, sketchy, doubtful, dubious, suspect
obdurate	From Latin ob- (in opposition) + durare (to last, as in “durable”). Her opinion is old but durable; she's stubborn.	stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or course of action.	I argued this point with him, but he was obdurate	stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, inflexible, intransigent, implacable, mullish, wilful, inexorable, relentless, adamant, indurate
gratuitous	You don't have to show gratitude when they've done something uncalled for or unjustified. But maybe when it's good and free :)	done without good reason; uncalled for.given or done free of charge.	1. gratuitous violence 2. solicitors provide a form of gratuitous legal advice	unjustified, unwarranted, undue, indefensible, superfluous, redundant, avoidable, indiscriminate, immoderate
indecorous	no decorum	not in keeping with good taste and propriety; improper.	1. a pub crawl with sundry indecorous adventures	improper, unseemly, immodest, indelicate, unsuitable, impolite, inapposite
soliloquy	solo + loqui = speak alone. Solo performers can be loquacious during a monologue.	an act of speaking one's thoughts aloud when by oneself or regardless of any hearers, especially by a character in a play.	Edmund ends the scene as he had begun it, with a soliloquy	monologue, speech, address, lecture, oration, sermon, homily, spiel
stolid	If your knowledge storage is solid, you can be calm during the GRE exam.	calm, dependable, and showing little emotion or animation.	A stolid, slow-speaking man	impassive, phelgmatic, calm, placid, apathetic, uninterested, indifferent, bovine, lumpish, lethargic, torpid
capitulate	Captains that are too late to the battle field has to yield to the enemy's might and preparation.	cease to resist an opponent or an unwelcome demand; yield.	The patriots had to capitulate to the enemy forces	surrender, yield, cave in, succumb, crumble, relent, acquiesce, accede
extemporize	Extra poets rise and improvise on the spot	compose or perform something such as music or a speech without preparation; improvise.	He extemporized at the piano	improvise, impromptu, unrehearsed, unprepared
cogitate	cognitively + meditate	think deeply about something; meditate or reflect.	He stroked his beard and retired to cogitate	contemplate, consider, dwell on, review, revolve, cerebrate
nominal	From nomin- (name). Nominees are only symbolic titles. They have minimal effect on your careers.	(of a role or status) existing in name only.	1. the streets have names like Third Avenue, but the resemblance to Manhattan is only nominal 2. they charge a nominal fee for the service	token, symbolic, emblematic, minute, minimal. trifling, minuscule, infinitesimal, theoretical, ceremonial, formal, supposed
plucky	Brave dragonslayers dare pluck plants on that scary dragon's head.	having or showing determined courage in the face of difficulties.	The plucky youngster has astounded medical staff	brave, valiant, intrepid, valorous, gallant, stout, dauntless, resolute, stalwart, audacious, brazen
grovel		lie or crawl abjectly on the ground with one's face downwards.act in an obsequious way in order to obtain someone's forgiveness or favour.	1. he grovelled at George's feet 2. they criticized leaders who grovelled to foreign patrons	crawl, creep, fawn, toady, flatter, butter up, obsequious, truckle, blandish
feint	Feign a quick deception to mislead the opponent	a deceptive or pretended blow, thrust, or other movement, especially in boxing or fencing.make a deceptive or distracting movement, especially during a fight.	1. a brief feint at the opponent's face	bluff, ruse, deception, pretence, ploy, sham, expedient, distraction
assiduous	A scientist assesses the claims with diligent research and persistent effort.	showing great care and perseverance.	Her assiduous attention to detail ensured that the project was completed to the highest standard.	diligent, careful, meticulous, industrious.
efflorescence	In Florence, flowers bloom beautifully in spring.	the state or period of flowering.	The garden was a riot of colors due to the efflorescence of various plants.	blooming, flowering, blossom.
hoodwink	Under the hood, the suspect winked at the police after deceiving them	to deceive or trick someone	The con artist managed to hoodwink investors into believing his fake business was profitable.	deceive, trick, mislead, bamboozle
impecunious	pecunia=money. I’m a peculiar genius, but it’s no use since I’m penniless	having little or no money.	Despite his impecunious background, he managed to attend a prestigious university through scholarships.	penniless, poor, impoverished, needy
indict	The verdict indicated that the defendant would be charged with the crime.	formally accuse of or charge with a serious crime	His former manager was indicted for fraud.	charge with, accuse of, arraign for, prosecute for, take to court for, put on trial for, bring to trial for,
ironic	His ironic tone is sarcastic and paradoxical	using or characterized by ironyhappening in the opposite way to what is expected, and typically causing wry amusement because of this	Edward's tone was ironic.It was ironic that the fire station burned down while the firefighters were out on a call.	sarcastic, sardonic, dry, caustic, sharp, stinging, scathingparadoxical, incongruous, odd, strange, weird, peculiar, unexpected
jaded	Jay's deadly interest in collecting jades became weary after he’d been fooled so many times.	tired, bored, or lacking enthusiasm, typically after having had too much of something.	After years in the same job, he felt jaded and was looking for new challenges.	bored, weary, dulled, tired
luminary	Luminous star scientists are innovative and renowned figures in their fields.	a person who inspires or influences others, especially one prominent in a particular sphere.	The conference was graced by several luminaries from the field of environmental science.	leading light, guiding light, inspiration, leader, expert, master, panjandrum, dignitary, VIP
prudence	Prudent plan show cautiousness and wisdom.	the quality of being prudent; cautiousnesswisdom or judgment	His prudence in financial matters ensured that he was well-prepared for retirement. Foresters argue about the prudence of drastic thinning.	caution, cautiousness, care, carefulness, canniness, chariness, wariness, circumspection wisdom, judgment, good judgment, judiciousness, sagacity, shrewdness, advisability, common sense, sense
serendipitous	Even serene moments can dip us into accidental and happy discoveries.	occurring or discovered by chance in a happy or beneficial way (noun: serendipity)	Their meeting was entirely serendipitous; they found each other in a random café.	chance, accidental; lucky, fortuitous; unexpected, unanticipated, unforeseen, unlooked-for
unnerving	The mere thought of public speaking is discomforting to my nerves	causing one to feel nervous, afraid, or worried	The sudden, eerie silence in the old house was unnerving for the investigators.	alarming, unsettling, disconcerting, disturbing.
abrogate	A brother gatekeeper repeals and cancels old rules specially for me	to repeal or do away with (a law, right, or formal agreement)	The new government promised to abrogate the outdated regulations.	annul, revoke, repeal, invalidate
aghast	A ghost shocked me, leaving me horrified and frozen.	Filled with shock or horror.	She was aghast at the sight of the devastation left by the hurricane.	horrified, shocked, appalled, dismayed
apprise	A prize is given to those who inform the police about the fugitive	To inform or tell someone.	Please apprise me of any changes to the schedule.	inform, notify, update, brief
beguile	Don't be guided by his charm; it's only to deceive you to get your money	to charm or enchant someone, sometimes in a deceptive way. (guile (n) cunning intelligence)	He was beguiled by her beauty and wit.	charm, enchant, deceive, captivate
boon	Boon companions provide benefits and blessings in tough times.	a thing that is helpful or beneficial	The new technology proved to be a real boon for the company.The navigation system will be a boon to both civilian and military users.	blessing, benefit, advantage, asset
callous	Callused hands are the result of his cruel and heartless battles.	showing or having an insensitive and cruel disregard for others	His callous comments about the murder made me shiver.	heartless, unfeeling, uncaring, cold, cold-hearted, insensitive,  cold-blooded, harsh, cruel, ruthless, brutal
coddle		to treat someone in an overprotective way.cook (an egg) in water below boiling point	She tends to coddle her children, always ensuring they are comfortable.	pamper, overprotect, spoil, indulge
crescendo	When the moon is no longer crescent, the wolves howl louder and build up to a crescendo.	the loudest point reached in a gradually increasing soundthe highest point reached in a progressive increase of intensity(Music) a gradual increase in loudness (for this meaning, crescendo can also be a verb)	The music reached a dramatic crescendo before the final, quiet notesThe hysteria reached a crescendo around the spring festival.Each time the key changes, there is a gradual crescendo.	climax, peak, height, escalation
extenuating		(of a factor or situation) serving to lessen the seriousness of an offense	The judge considered the extenuating circumstances before passing sentence.	mitigating, excusing, exonerative, exculpatory, justifying, palliative, palliating, vindicatory
frenetic	Frenzy causes frantic and wild activity in the room.	fast and energetic in a rather wild and uncontrolled way.	The office was a frenetic hive of activity as the deadline approached.	frantic, wild, frenzied, hectic, fraught, feverish, fevered, mad, manic, hyperactive, energetic, intense
fringe	The edges of the fridge stick a lot of magnets from my travels	the border or outer edges of an area or groupthe unconventional, extreme, or marginal part of a group or sphere of activity	The protesters stood on the fringe of the main demonstration.	edge, border, periphery, margin
hapless	hap = luck	unfortunate or unlucky.	The hapless traveler missed every connection and ended up stranded.	unfortunate, unlucky, ill-fated, miserable
immaculate	I'm calculating on how to make my spaces spotless	(especially of a person or their clothes) perfectly clean, neat, or tidyfree from flaws or mistakes; perfect	Her home was immaculate, with everything in its place.	clean, spotless, pristine, unsoiled, unstained, unsullied, speckless, ultraclean unblemished, spotless, pure, impeccable, unsullied, undefiled, untarnished, stainless
obfuscate	The owner’s obscure message confuses the cat.	to deliberately make something unclear or difficult to understand.	The politician's speech was designed to obfuscate the real issues.It is more likely to obfuscate people than enlighten them.	obscure, confuse, make unclear, blur, muddle, jumble, garble, muddy, cloud, befog bewilder, mystify, puzzle, perplex, baffle, confound
ossify	oss- = bone. Skeleton bones harden after eighth week of conception and become rigid after adulthood.	to turn into bone to become rigid and fixed in attitude.	These cartilages may ossify.His views on the matter had begun to ossify, showing no room for change.	become bony, harden, solidify, stiffen, rigidify, petrify, fossilize fossilize, harden, rigidify, stagnate, become unyielding/obdurate, become unprogressive
pastiche	Pasta stitches together to create a hodgepodge.	an artistic work consisting of a medley of pieces from various sources, or an imitation of another artist's style.	The novel was a pastiche of classic detective fiction, with a modern twist.	mixture, hodgepodge, collage, imitation
perspicacious	Looks like per-spec-cautious. The person with spectacles could look cautiously into every detail, showing how discerning their judgment was.	having a ready insight into and understanding of things.	Her perspicacious analysis of the market trends helped the company thrive.	discerning, shrewd, perceptive, astute, penetrating, observant, percipient, sharp-witted, sharp, quick, quick-witted, acute, clever, canny, intelligent, insightful, judicious, wise, sagacious, sage,
ponderous	ponder=weigh, reflect. ponderous=weighty. Ponder over heavy and slow-moving decisions.	slow and clumsy because of great weight; dull or laborious.	The ponderous manuscript was difficult to read due to its length and complexity.	heavy, weighty, clumsy, slow
recluse	re + close. Those hermits, again, closed their herbal shops, avoiding any guests	a person who lives a solitary life and tends to avoid other people.	The author lived as a recluse, rarely seen in public and preferring solitude.	hermit, loner, introvert, isolate
retaliate	In game theory, a Tit-or-Tat will always fight back: they replicate the opponent's previous move	to make an attack or assault in return for a similar attack.	The company decided to retaliate against the competitor's unfair practices.	revenge oneself, fight back, strike back, hit back, respond, react, reply, reciprocate, counterattack
rhapsody		an enthusiastic or ecstatic expression of feeling in speech or writing, or a piece of music of irregular form.	The composer’s latest work is a rhapsody that captures the grandeur of the landscape.	euphoria, ecstasy, enthusiasm, joy
shirk	Looks like shark. The aquarist avoids feeding sharks though it's his duty.	To avoid or neglect a duty or responsibility.	He was caught trying to shirk his responsibilities during the project.	evade, dodge, avoid, sidestep, shuffle off, run away from, shrink from, shun, skip, miss,
sinecure	A sinecare is a job that you can do without care.	a position requiring little or no work but giving the holder status or financial benefit.	Connie's job was a sinecure that could be done by anyone.	easy job, soft option
sinuous	Sine curve follows a winding path along the x-coordinate	Having many curves and turns; lithe and supple.	The snake moved in a sinuous pattern through the grass, making it hard to follow.	winding, windy, serpentine, curving, twisting, meandering, snaking, snaky, zigzag, zigzagging, turning, bending, curling, coiling, undulating;
sordid	As a gangster, he solely did dirty and despicable deeds	involving ignoble actions and motives; arousing moral distaste and contemptdirty or squalid.	The sordid details of the scandal were shocking to the public.the overcrowded housing conditions were sordid and degrading.	sleazy, seedy, seamy, shoddy, vile, foul, tawdry, louche, base, debased, degenerate, corrupt, dishonest, dishonorable, disreputable, despicable, discreditable, contemptible, ignominious, ignoble, shameful, wretched, abhorrent, abominable
stanch (staunch)	While on diet, I restrict my intake of starch	1. to stop or restrict (a flow of blood) from a wound;  2. loyal / stalwart	The nurse quickly stanched the wound with a clean bandage. They’re staunch supporters of Donald Trump.	block, stop, halt, stem, curb, repress, suppress, turn back, rein (in), squelch, discontinue, suspend, impede
surfeit	We assume the Earth's surface has a surplus of resources for everyone, so we stuffed ourselves, yet we always want more.	an excessive amount of something; overindulgence.cause (someone) to desire no more of something as a result of having consumed or done it to excess	The party had such a surfeit of food that many guests went home with leftovers.We'll all be surfeited with food and fuddled with wine.	excess, surplus, abundance, oversupply, superabundance, superfluity, overdose, glut, avalanche, deluge satiate, gorge, overfeed, overfill, glut, cram, stuff, overindulge, fill
ulterior	ultra interior = hidden deep inside	existing beyond what is obvious or admitted; intentionally hidden.beyond what is immediate or present; coming in the future:	His ulterior motives for helping her were not immediately apparent.ulterior pay promised to the mariners	underlying, undisclosed, undivulged, unexpressed, unapparent, under wraps, unrevealed, concealed, hidden, covert, secret
voluble	"Her loud ""volume"" and many dialogue bubbles make her the most talkative character in the comic."	(of a person) talking fluently, readily, or incessantly(of speech) characterized by fluency and readiness of utterance	She was voluble and kept the conversation flowing throughout the evening.It is an excited and voluble discussion at the conference	talkative, loquacious, garrulous, fluent.
abstruse	Looks like abs-truce. Abs workouts are hard to truce with because they are difficult to understand	difficult to understand; obscure.	The teacher's explanation was so abstruse that only a few students understood it.	obscure, arcane, esoteric, enigmatic, complex
auxiliary	Looks like aux-ill-ary. Aux cords are ill as supplementary tools, but they help when the main sound system fails.	providing supplementary or additional help.	The company hired auxiliary staff during the busy season.	additional, supplementary, secondary, supporting
caricature	Looks like car-picture. The children's car pictures are usually exaggeration they see in cartoons.	a picture, description, or imitation of a person in which certain striking characteristics are exaggerated.	The caricature in the newspaper exaggerated the politician's features.	parody, satire, cartoon, distortion, exaggeration
depravity	Looks like deep-poverty. Deep poverty is the result of government corruption and the officials' wickedness	moral corruption; wickedness.	The novel depicted a world filled with depravity and despair.	corruption, vice, degeneracy, immorality, wickedness
dilettante	From Italian dilettare (to delight). He enjoyed diluting his time across hobbies, but his efforts were amateur at best.	a person who cultivates an area of interest without real commitment or knowledge.	He was seen as a dilettante, dabbling in art without any real expertise.	amateur, nonprofessional, dabbler, novice, pretender
effrontery	"Comes from Latin ""ex"" (out of) + ""frons"" (forehead, brow). He has the effrontery to boldly front up to their boss, showing insolence with a raised brow."	insolent or impertinent behavior.	His effrontery was shocking	impudence, audacity, nerve, cheek, gall
encroach	Looks like ENClose-cockROACH. The cockroach began to enclose itself in my room, intruding into every corner.	to gradually move or go into an area that is beyond the usual or desired limits.	The fence was there to prevent neighbors from encroaching on our property.	infringe, invade, intrude, trespass, overstep
endow	Looks like in-dowry. To endow means to invest in their future with dowry, providing them with resources.	1. to provide with a quality, ability, or asset  2. to give or bequeath an income or property to a person or institution.	She was endowed with a sharp mind and an inheritance from her grandmother.	bestow, give, bequeath, donate, grant
entreat	Looks like en-treat. She entered the room to treat the king, begging for his forgiveness.	to ask someone earnestly or anxiously to do something.	He entreated his friend to stay, pleading with him to reconsider.	implore, beseech, beg, plead, appeal
gregarious	greg=flock/group. Greg is very sociable. He could flock from one group to another quickly.	1. fond of company; 2. (of animals) living in flocks or loosely organized communities	1. He was a popular and gregarious man. 2. Gregarious species forage in flocks from colonies or roosts.	sociable, social, companionable, convivial, clubbable, affable, amiable, genial, congenial, cordial
indictment	Comes from Latin in (towads) + dict (pronounce) + ment. The jury issues the verdict, dictating that the criminal receives formal charge.	a formal charge or accusation of a serious crime.	The indictment listed several serious charges against the defendant.	charge, accusation, allegation, arraignment, prosecution
indignant	"Comes from Latin in (not) + dignus (worthy, as in ""dignity""). He was furious for being wrongfully accused, as if he had no dignity like an ant."	feeling or showing anger or annoyance at what is perceived as unfair treatment.	He was indignant when accused of lying	resentful, disgruntled, offended, outraged, aggrieved
ineluctable	"From Latin in (not) + e (out) + luctari (struggle, as in ""reluctant""). In the end, even the most reluctant person realizes that some fates are inescapable."	unable to be resisted or avoided	Lee has the irritating habit of arguing his opinions as ineluctable facts	inescapable, inevitable, inexorable, sure, unavoidable, unpreventable
inquisitive	Children love to inquire about everything, being curious with no bounds.	having or showing an interest in learning things	Their inquisitive neighbors had gathered at the gate	curious, intrigued, interested, agog
latitude	He enjoyed such scope of freedom, like the wide latitude of a map.	scope for freedom of action or thought.	The professor gave the students latitude in choosing their essay topics.	freedom, scope, leeway, room, liberty
levity	"From Latin ""levitas"" (light, as in ""levitate"").  During the serious meeting, he made a light comment, trying to levitate the mood with his levity."	humor or frivolity, especially the treatment of a serious matter with humor.	His levity during the funeral was inappropriate and shocked many.	frivolity, flippancy, humor, cheerfulness, light-heartedness
malevolent	Comes from male ‘ill’ + volent ‘wishing’. These male species are so violent that they always have evil plans.	having or showing a wish to do evil to others.	The malevolent look in his eyes made everyone uneasy.	malicious, hostile, evil, wicked, spiteful
mediate	She tried to mediate the conflict as though meditating on peace.	to intervene between people in a dispute to bring about an agreement.	She mediated between the two sides, hoping to find common ground.	arbitrate, intervene, negotiate, moderate, resolve
occlude	Looks like ox + include. The ox excludes any light from entering the barn by blocking the doorway.	to stop, close up, or obstruct an opening, orifice, or passage.	The surgeon worked quickly to occlude the blood vessel and stop the bleeding.	block, obstruct, close, clog, seal
pacify	The mother pacified her crying child by giving her a pie, effectively soothing her.	to calm the anger, agitation, or excitement of.	The mother tried to pacify her crying baby with a lullaby.	soothe, calm, appease, placate, mollify
paragon	Looks like para-gon. The paramedic was considered a gone to all, an epitome of selflessness.	a person or thing regarded as a perfect example of a particular quality.	He is a paragon of virtue, admired by all who know him.	model, epitome, exemplar, ideal, standard
patronize	The wealthy patron regularly buy local artists' works, but his support felt condescending.	to treat with an apparent kindness that betrays a feeling of superiority.	They patronized the small bookstore, though their compliments felt insincere.	condescend, deign, humiliate, talk down to, disparage
penurious	From Latin penuria (need). Since the man was in dire need, he counted every penny and was extremely parsimonious with what to buy.	extremely poor parsimonious, mean	Her father's untimely death put the family in a penurious situation He lived in a most penurious manner--denying himself every indulgence	poor, poverty-stricken, destitute, necessitous, in penury (= in need), impecunious, impoverished miserly, parsimonious, ungenerous, penny-pinching
piquant	From French piquer (pricking). The chef added a pinch of spices to make the dish spicy and pricking.	having a pleasantly sharp taste or appetizing flavor.	The piquant aroma of the dish made everyone's mouth water.	spicy, tangy, zesty, flavorful, lively
rampant	The ramp led to a jungle where wild growth was unchecked, ideal for rampaging wildfire in hot summers.	flourishing or spreading unchecked.	This is an area where poverty and disease are rampant	widespread, uncontrolled, unchecked, unrestrained, rife
remote	"Related to ""removed"". The cabin was so isolated it felt removed from the world."	situated far from the main centers of population
reprobate	"Comes from re (not) + probare (approve, as in ""approbation""). The rascal was disapproved for his immorality."	an unprincipled person (often used humorously or affectionately)	The reprobate continued his life of crime, showing no remorse.a long-missed old reprobate drinking comrade.	rogue, rascal, scoundrel, good-for-nothing, villain, wretch
turbid	"Same ""turb"" in ""disturb"" or ""turbulent"". The river water is muddy after the storm, like her being muddled after being rejected. Both are disturbing."	1. cloudy, opaque, or thick with suspended matter.; 2. confused or obscure in meaning or effect	The turbid water made it impossible to see the bottom of the river.	1. murky, muddy, cloudy, unclear, opaque; 2. confused, muddled
turgid	Breaks down to tur-gid (turkey rigid). The turkey was so rigid after being stuffed that it looked inflated.	swollen and distended or congested. (of language or style) tediously pompous or bombastic	The author's turgid prose made the novel difficult to read.	bombastic, pompous, overblown, inflated, pretentious
vacuous	"Same Latin root ""vacare"" (empty) as ""vacuum, vacant"". His expression was as empty as a vacuum, showing no signs of thought."	having or showing a lack of thought or intelligence	Campaign slogans are notoriously vacuous	blank, vacant, expressionless, deadpan, inscrutable, inexpressive, poker-faced, emotionless
affluent	Sounds like a-flew. If a man flew to a new country every week, he was wealthy.	having a great deal of money; wealthy.	The affluent family donated generously to the charity.	wealthy, rich, prosperous, well-off, well-to-do
allegorical	From Greek allo- (other) + -agoria (speaking). The politicians often speak of one thing while suggesting another, a hidden meaning.	constituting or containing allegory (a hidden meaning, typically a moral or political one)	The novel is an allegorical critique of modern society.	symbolic, metaphorical, representative, figurative, emblematic
allude	Sounds like a-loot. To help you find a loot, the NPC hints at the bush.	to suggest or call attention to indirectly; hint at.	He alluded to the possibility of a future partnership.	hint, imply, suggest, refer, insinuate
amplify	ample + fy. To amplify the sound, the speaker added ample bass, making the music louder.	to make something more intense or stronger.	The sound was amplified by the speaker system.	intensify, heighten, increase, boost, strengthen
catastrophic	The earthquake was a catastrophe, truly catastrophic in its impact.	involving or causing sudden great damage or suffering.	The hurricane had catastrophic effects on the coastal city.	disastrous, calamitous, catastrophic, tragic, ruinous
conundrum	Looks like co-nun-drum. How to deal with convicted nun's drums remains a problem for the church.	a confusing and difficult problem or question.	The conundrum left everyone scratching their heads.	puzzle, riddle, enigma, problem, quandary
defame	de (less) + fame. He tried to demage her fame with false rumors. It's slander	to damage the good reputation of someone; slander.	The media tried to defame him with false accusations.	slander, libel, malign, smear, vilify
detract	de (less) + traction. The critics' comments diminsh the movie's success, taking the traction away.	to reduce or take away the worth or value of.	The flaws did not detract from the overall beauty of the painting.	diminish, reduce, lessen, devalue, belittle
detrimental	His actions were detrimental, like pouring acid on the environment.	tending to cause harm.	Smoking is detrimental to your health.	harmful, damaging, injurious, destructive, hurtful
devious	"Related to ""devil"". His devious plans were like a devil hiding in plain sight—deceitful."	showing a skillful use of underhanded tactics to achieve goals.	His devious tactics earned him a reputation as untrustworthy.	dishonest, deceitful, underhanded, sly, cunning
dormant	From Latin dormire (sleep). The dorm was quiet as if all students were asleep, like an inactive volcano.	having normal physical functions suspended or slowed down for a period of time; in or as if in a deep sleep.	The seeds remain dormant until the spring.	inactive, inert, latent, quiescent, asleep
draconian	Looks like dragons. Dragons impose severe penalties on anyone stealing their treasure.	excessively harsh and severe.	The draconian measures were widely criticized for their severity.	harsh, severe, strict, stringent, authoritarian
egalitarian	"Related to ""equal"". He believed in egalitarian principles, where equal rights were key."	believing in or based on the principle that all people are equal and deserve equal rights and opportunities.	She is a strong advocate for egalitarian policies.	equal, fair, just, equitable, impartial
elusive	Looks like illusion. The elusive thief was like an illusion, impossible to catch.	difficult to find, catch, or achieve.difficult to remember or recall	he tried to reach her by telephone, but she continued to be elusivethe elusive thought he had had moments before.as usual she gave an elusive answer	evasive, slippery, shifty subtle, ambiguous, indefinable, intangible, impalpable, unanalyzable, fugitive, deceptive, baffling ambiguous, baffling, puzzling, misleading, evasive
erstwhile	Looks like erst (long ago) + while. The former king ruled a while ago.	former; of an earlier time.	His erstwhile friend turned against him.	former, previous, prior, past, earlier
gloat	Looks like good load. He couldn't help but boast about his good load of money.	to dwell on one's own success or another's misfortune with smugness or malignant pleasure.	He couldn't resist gloating over his rival's defeat.	boast, brag, show off, vaunt, crow
harrowing	Looks like h-arrow. Walking through a rain of arrows was agonizing to the newbie ninja.	acutely distressing or painful.	The survivors described the battle as a harrowing experience.	distressing, traumatic, terrifying, painful, agonizing
indefinite	in (not) + definite (defined end). The meeting time was uncertain, with no defined end in sight	lasting for an unknown or unstated length of time.	The project has been delayed for an indefinite period.	uncertain, undefined, vague, indefinite, unspecified
ingenious	Looks like in-genius. The inventor solution was so genius it seemed almost cleverly simple.	clever, original, and inventive.	Her ingenious invention revolutionized the industry.	clever, inventive, creative, innovative, resourceful
keen	He was keen to learn, with a mind as sharp as a knife.	having or showing eagerness or enthusiasm.	She showed a keen interest in learning about different cultures.	eager, enthusiastic, avid, sharp, intense
multifaceted	multi + facet (face, side). The project was multifaceted, requiring multiple faces to tackle its varied aspects.	having many different aspects or features.	The multifaceted problem required a complex solution.	complex, multifaceted, varied, diverse, manifold
omniscient	omni (all) + scient (knowing). He claimed to be omniscient, as if he had the knowledge of everything.	knowing everything.	The author wrote from an omniscient point of view.	all-knowing, all-seeing, omnipotent, wise, sagacious
remarkable	remark + able. Her remark during that presentation was so notable that it would be surprising if she performed worse.	worthy of attention; striking.	Her remarkable achievements earned her widespread recognition.	noteworthy, striking, exceptional, extraordinary, significant, surprising
sober		1. serious, sensible, and solemn.  2. not affected by alcohol; not drunk	The news of the accident brought everyone to a sober reality, sobering them up with seriousness.	1. serious, solemn, sober, grave, subdued  2. not drunk, not intoxicated, clearheaded
stem from	stem = root. The problem originated from a small mistake, but growing like the stem of a plant.	to originate from or be caused by.	The problem stemmed from a misunderstanding.	originate, arise, derive, come from, spring
subdued	sub (below) + due (draw, bring) = quieten. The crowd was subdued by the police, the siren also subdued.	1. (of a person or their manner) quiet and rather reflective or depressed. 2. (of color or lighting) soft and restrained:	I felt strangely subdued as I drove home.The subdued lighting created a calm and peaceful ambiance.	muted, toned down, restrained, soft, subdued
token	The gift was a token of appreciation, like a symbol of gratitude.	a thing serving as a visible or tangible representation of a fact, quality, feeling, etc.	The medal was a token of his bravery.	symbol, sign, representation, emblem, indication
unravel	"Sounds similar to ""untangle"". He worked to reveal the mystery, like untangling a raveled ball of yarn."	to investigate and solve or explain something complicated or puzzling.	He managed to unravel the mystery behind the disappearance.	untangle, solve, decipher, disentangle, sort out
withstand	with (against) + stand. He could endure any pressure, like a tree that can stand against the wind.	to remain undamaged or unaffected by; to resist.	He could withstand the harshest conditions without complaint.	resist, endure, stand firm, weather, hold out
abrasive	From Latin ab (away) + radere (scrape). The sandpaper abraded the wood, making it feel rough and harsh to the touch.	(of a substance or material) capable of polishing or cleaning a hard surface by rubbing or grinding(of a person or manner) showing little concern for the feelings of others; harsh	The wood should be rubbed down with fine abrasive paperHis abrasive comments made everyone uncomfortable.	grinding, rubbing, polishing, coarse, caustic, harsh, mordant caustic, cutting, grating, biting, acerbic, vitriolic; rough, harsh, hard
artful	The thief was so artful that his tricks were like art in how clever they were.	Clever or skillful, typically in a crafty or cunning way.	She was artful in her negotiations, always finding a way to get what she wanted.	cunning, crafty, wily, sly, shrewd
avert	a (away) + vert (turn). He averted his eyes from the accident, turning away to avoid seeing it.	To turn away or aside.	He averted his gaze, not wanting to see the destruction.	prevent, avoid, turn aside, deflect, dodge
avid	An avid reader devours books with eagerness.	Having or showing a keen interest or enthusiasm for something.	She is an avid collector of vintage postcards.	eager, enthusiastic, passionate, fervent, ardent
brevity	"Related to ""brief."" The speech was as short as brief notes."	Concise and exact use of words in writing or speech.	The brevity of his speech left the audience wanting more.	conciseness, succinctness, terseness, pithiness, economy
bromide	Looks like bro-mine. The same old sayings goes “What’s my brother's is mine”	A trite and unoriginal idea or remark, typically intended to soothe or placate.	His speech was full of bromides that offered no real insight.	cliché, platitude, truism, banality, commonplace
circumstantial	circum (around) + stand + ial. The evidence was purely circumstantial, circling around the crime but never quite direct.	pointing indirectly towards someone's guilt but not conclusively proving it.	The circumstantial evidence wasn't enough to convict him.	indirect, circumstantial, incidental, inferred, suggestive
cloying	Looks like clogging. The cloying perfume was so sweet it felt like it was clogging the air.	Disgustingly sweet or sentimental.	The cloying sweetness of the dessert was too much for my taste.	sickly sweet, sugary, syrupy, saccharine, mawkish
counterfeit	counter (opposite) + feit (made). The bill was well made, but it was a fake one.	A fraudulent imitation of something else; a forgery.	The counterfeit money was so well-made it fooled the bank.	fake, fraudulent, phony, forged, sham
denigrate	Comes from de (completely) + nigrare (black). He tried to disparage his rival by attacking his Blackness and his dark past.	To criticize unfairly; to disparage.	He denigrated his opponent's character in an attempt to win the election.	belittle, defame, disparage, vilify, slander
disciple	"Related to ""discipline."" The disciple followed the teachings with discipline, faithfully adhering to every word."	A follower or student of a teacher, leader, or philosopher.	The disciple followed his master's teachings closely.	follower, adherent, supporter, devotee, pupil
extol	Looks like ex (express) + toll. The residents expressed their admiration and toll the bells to praise the hero’s victory.	To praise enthusiastically.	They extolled her virtues at the awards ceremony.	praise, laud, acclaim, commend, applaud
forebode	(=forewarn). The dark clouds forebode a coming storm	To act as a warning or indication of a future event.	The dark clouds forebode a stormy night.	foreshadow, predict, foretell, portend, augur
ideologue	The doctrinarie follows his ideology to a tee.	An uncompromising and dogmatic follower of an ideology.	The ideologue was unyielding in his beliefs.	doctrinaire, fanatic, zealot, partisan, propagandist
impediment	"Noun of ""impede."" The impediment in his speech was like a pedal impeding the flow."	A hindrance or obstruction in doing something.	His speech impediment made it difficult for him to communicate.	obstacle, barrier, hindrance, obstruction, block
imperative	It is imperative to follow the imperial orders without delay.	Of vital importance; crucial.	It is imperative that we finish this project on time.	essential, crucial, vital, necessary, urgent
impulsive	His impulsive spending was made on a pulse. It was so impetuous.	Acting or done without forethought.	Her impulsive purchase led to buyer's remorse.	spontaneous, hasty, rash, impetuous, unpremeditated
interminable	in (not) + terminate (end) + able. The meeting felt interminable, like it would never end.	Endless or seemingly endless.	The interminable meeting seemed like it would never end.	endless, perpetual, eternal, incessant, unending
intuitive	"Adj of ""intuition."""	Using or based on what one feels to be true even without conscious reasoning.	He had an intuitive understanding of how things worked.	instinctive, intuitive, spontaneous, innate, inherent
lassitude	From Latin lassus (tired). After carrying lassoed weights all day, the dude was overcome with lethargy.	A state of physical or mental weariness; lack of energy.	His lassitude was evident after the long hike.	weariness, fatigue, lethargy, exhaustion, tiredness
omit	Looks like oh-miss. Oh I missed this detail from the report, but I did not deliberately leave it out.	To leave out or exclude.	He omitted important details from his report.	exclude, leave out, miss, neglect, overlook
ornate	The ornate decorations were as elaborate as ornaments on a Christmas tree.	Elaborately or highly decorated.	The ornate design of the palace was breathtaking.	elaborate, decorated, embellished, fancy, intricate
paltry	Looks like pale-try. The sum he was offered felt like a pale try at compensation, meager.	Very small or meager.	The paltry reward was not worth the effort.	meager, insignificant, scanty, trivial, negligible
pejorative	"Comes from Latin ""pejor"" (worse). The pejorative remark was meant to make things worse–a clearly insulting comment"	Expressing contempt or disapproval.	Her pejorative comments made everyone uncomfortable.	disparaging, derogatory, denigratory, deprecatory, defamatory, slanderous, libelous, abusive, insulting, slighting, vituperative, disapproving
prefigure	pre (before) + figure (show). The early chapters foreshadow the novel's tragic ending; luckily I figure it out before it happens.	To be an early indication or version of something.	The early chapters prefigure the novel's tragic ending.	foreshadow, anticipate, predict, presage, portend
presage	pre (before) + sage (perceive).  The old saying forebodes future events, like sages predicting the future.	To be a sign or warning that something will happen.	The ominous clouds presage a storm.	foretell, predict, indicate, prophesy, herald
prescribe	The doctor prescribed the treatment as a script to be followed.	To advise and authorize the use of a medicine or treatment.	The doctor prescribed antibiotics for the infection.	order, direct, instruct, authorize, command
prevail	Comes from pre (before) + valere (have power). Good should triumph evil.	To prove more powerful than opposing forces; to be victorious.	Justice will prevail in the end.	triumph, succeed, overcome, conquer, dominate
propitiate	propitous (favorable) + ate. He tried to appease the angry gods to win their favor.	To win or regain the favor of (a god, spirit, or person) by doing something that pleases them.	The king sought to propitiate the gods with offerings.	appease, placate, pacify, mollify, conciliate
recapitulate	He recapitulated the main points, as though re-capturing the essence.	To summarize and state again the main points.	He recapitulated the main points of his argument.	summarize, recap, restate, reiterate, review
querulous	Looks like query loud. He queries loudly, complaining about every small issue	complaining in a petulant or whining manner	She became querulous and demanding	petulant, complaining, pettish, touchy, testy, tetchy, waspish, prickly, crusty, peppery, fractious, fretful, irritable
formidable	From Latin formidare (to fear). Looks like form-mid-able. Having the job form sent in the middle of the night could be intimidating to us.	inspiring fear or respect through being impressively large, powerful, intense, or capable	He's a formiddable opponent	intimidating, forbidding, redoubtable, daunting, alarming, frightening, terrifying, petrifying, horrifying, chilling
stealthy		behaving, done, or made in a cautious and surreptitious manner, so as not to be seen or heard	there was a good deal of stealthy coming and going within the building	furtive, secretive, secret, surreptitious, sneaking, sly, skulking, slinking, clandestine, hidden, covert,
sap	The long hours of work sapped his energy, draining him like a tree being slowly depleted of its sap.	gradually weaken or destroy (a person's strength or power)	our energy is being sapped by bureaucrats and politicians	erode, undermine, wear away, wear down, deplete, reduce, lessen, lower, attenuate, exhaust, impair, drain
incandescent	"From Latin in + candidus (white, as in ""candid""). The candle was glowing white, while the controversial debate made the candid participants inflamed."	emitting light as a result of being heatedfull of strong emotion; passionate	incandescent fragments of lavashe was incandescent at the way the IRS acted	white-hot, burning, fiery, blazing, ablaze, aflame; glowingfurious, enraged, raging, incensed, infuriated, fuming, inflamed, irate
taunt	Looks like t-aunt. At first, they teased their aunt, but the taunts grew more severe, turning into provocation and insults that went too far.	provoke or challenge (someone) with insulting remarks	the crowd taunted him about his marriage split.	provoke, insult, tease, chaff, torment, goad, ridicule, deride, mock, heckle
casuistry	Looks like case-try. The lawyers try to twist cases to suit their specious arguments–a form of casuistry.	the use of clever but unsound reasoning, especially in relation to moral questions; sophistry	the usual teenage casuistry about altruism always being ultimately selfish	sophistry, specious reasoning, speciousness, sophism, chicanery, quibbling, equivocation, fallaciousness
ancillary	Looks like anc (ancient) + illary (auxillary). These ancient tools are now only auxiliary to the modern machinery.	providing support to the primary activities or operation of an organization, system, etc	the development of ancillary services to support its products	additional, auxiliary, supporting, helping, assisting, extra, supplementary, supplemental, accessory, contributory, attendant
crotchety	Looks like crotch + ety. The new pants were too tight around his crotch, making him irritable all day.	irritable	He was tired and crotchety after a stressful work day	bad-tempered, peevish, irritable, irascible, touchy, testy, prickly, peppery, fractious, crusty, moody, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, waspish, shrewish, grumpy, grouchy
dreary	Looks like dream + weary. The long, dreary day felt like a weary dream, making me feel dull.	dull, bleak, and lifeless; depressing	the dreary routine of working, eating, and trying to sleep	dull, drab, uninteresting, flat, dry, banal, bland, insipid, colorless, lifeless, sterile, tedious, wearisome, boring, unexciting, unstimulating, uninspiring
certitude	From certain + tude	absolute certainty or conviction that something is the case	The question may never be answered with certitude.	certainty, confidence, sureness, positiveness, conviction, reliability, assuredness, assurance
canvass	Looks like canvas. The politician canvassed the neighborhood like tossing across a canvas, covering every corner to poll votes and opinions.	solicit votes from (electors in a constituency)try to obtain; request question (someone) in order to ascertain their opinion propose (an idea or plan) for discussion	in each ward, two workers canvassed some 2,000 votersthey promised to canvass all member clubs for their views.they're canvassing support among shareholdersearly retirement was canvassed as a solution to the problem of unemployment.	campaign, electioneer, solicit votes, drum up support poll, question, ask, survey, interview seek, try to obtain, make a pitch for propose, suggest, submit, offer, air; discuss, debate, consider
plight	Looks like p-light. My room has a problematic light, making me struggle to focus on studying. What a predicament.	a dangerous, difficult, or otherwise unfortunate situation	We must direct our efforts toward relieving the plight of children living in poverty.	predicament, unfortunate/difficult situation, trouble, difficulty, mess, extremity, bind
libel	Looks like label. The false labels on the article are defamatory lies that could defame her reputation.	make a false and typically malicious statement about	she alleged the magazine had libeled her	defame, malign, slander, traduce, smear, besmirch, tarnish, taint
allay	Looks like a-lay. She lays a comforting hand on his shoulder, calming and lulling his anxiety.	diminish or put at rest (fear, suspicion, or worry)relieve or alleviate (pain or hunger)	the report attempted to educate the public and allay fearssome stale figs partly allayed our hunger.	reduce, diminish, decrease, lessen, assuage, alleviate, ease, relieve, soothe, soften, dull, cushion, mollify, moderate, calm, lull, temper, mitigate, palliate, blunt, deaden, abate
misgiving	Looks like mis (not) + giving. She worried about not giving the right present to her friend, feeling constant qualm.	a feeling of doubt or apprehension about the outcome or consequences of something	I felt a sense of misgiving at the prospect of retirement.	qualm, doubt, reservation, scruple; trepidation, skepticism, worry, unease, uneasiness, anxiety, apprehension, uncertainty
apocryphal	Looks like apple-cry-phal. The story about an apple crying in the garden might be fictitious, but everyone believes it as if it were true.	fictitious although widely circulated as true	The apocryphal story about the haunted house has been told for generations, but there’s no evidence to support it.	fictitious, spurious, doubtful
demarcate	Looks like de-mark-ate (separate). The marker was used to clearly separate and define the boundaries of the property.	set the boundaries of; separate	The new map demarcates the boundaries between the two countries more clearly.	delineate, distinguish, define
epithet	"Sounds like ""epic tit."" He earned the epic title of ""The Brave,"" a fitting nickname for his courage."	a descriptive phrase expressing a characteristic of the person or thing mentioned	Alexander the Great earned his epithet because of his vast empire-building conquests.	sobriquet, nickname, byname, title, name, label, tag
exuberant	From Latin “ex” (out of) + “uber” (fruitful). The ex-Uber driver never ranted; he always seems ebullient and lively.	full of energy, excitement, and cheerfulness	The crowd was exuberant during the concert, dancing and singing along with every song.	ebullient, lively, spirited
inalienable	From Latin in (not) + alienare (to transfer). Freedom is an inalienable right, something that cannot be taken away.	Not subject to being taken away or transferred	Freedom of speech is an inalienable right.	Absolute, inviolable, inherent
jubilation	Sounds like ruby-late-tion. Although she received the ruby late into her retirement, she still showed rejoicing like a child.	great happiness and exultation	There was jubilation in the streets after the team won the championship.	exultation, triumph, joy, joyousness, rejoicing, elation, euphoria, ecstasy, rapture, transports of delight, glee, gleefulness, exuberance
nomenclature	From Latin “nomen” (name) + “calare” (to call). The naming of the new invention followed strict nomenclature; it has to be called by a correct name.	the devising or choosing of names for things	The scientific community agreed on a new nomenclature for the recently discovered species.	terminology, classification, vocabulary
olfactory	"Looks like ""old factory."" The old factory had a strong smell, reminding workers of its olfactory history."	relating to the sense of smell	The olfactory senses are closely linked to memory, which is why certain smells can evoke strong recollections.	aromatic, scented, fragrant
peregrination	"Sounds like ""pair of grins."" The pair of grins on their faces showed how much they enjoyed their long journey across the world."	a long journey, especially one made on foot	Their peregrination across the continent was filled with adventures and challenges.	expedition, trek, journey, crossing, excursion, passage, pilgrimage, safari, traversing, trip, voyage
sepulchral	"Sounds like ""sepia."" The sepia tone of the tomb photo made it look gloomy and funereal."	relating to a tomb or interment; gloomy, dismal	The sepulchral atmosphere of the abandoned mansion made it feel like a place of sorrow and loss.	gloomy, dismal, lugubrious, somber, melancholy, melancholic, sad, sorrowful, mournful, doleful, mirthless, cheerless, joyless, funereal, dismal, dolorous
stipulation	Looks like stipend + condition. To receive stipend, the condition is you teach at least two classes this semester.	a condition or requirement that is specified or demanded	The contract included a stipulation that the project must be completed within six months.	condition, precondition, provision, prerequisite, requisite, specification; demand, requirement
noisome	From Middle English “noysome” (harmful, annoying). The noise coming from the trash was accompanied by a noisome, repugnant smell that made everyone cover their noses.	having an extremely offensive smell	The noisome garbage dump was a serious health hazard for the nearby residents.	foul, repugnant, putrid
disgruntled	dis (intensifier) + gruntle (utter grunts). The grunts of the workers showed they were displeased with the changes at the factory.	dissatisfied, discontent	The workers were disgruntled after their requests for better working conditions were ignored.	displeased, discontented, unhappy
contrived	"Looks like ""con trivia."" The con artist created forced trivia with huge prizes to lure gullible preys."	deliberately created rather than arising naturally or spontaneously	The plot of the novel felt contrived and lacked the natural flow of a well-told story.	artificial, forced, strained
simulate	From Latin “simulare” (to imitate). The simulator was used to imitate the real experience, allowing pilots to fake a flying experience safely.	imitate the appearance or character of	The flight simulator is designed to closely simulate the experience of flying a real airplane.	feign, replicate, imitate
perquisite	"Looks like ""perk-quisite."" To receive this perk, the requisite is being a student."	a perk or benefit	One of the perquisites of his job is access to the company’s private jet.	benefit, advantage, privilege
disabuse	From Latin “disabusus” (to free from error). The teacher disillusioned the students’ misunderstandings and errors	to free someone from a misconception	The teacher disabused the students of the notion that the exam would be easy.	disillusion, correct, set straight
preposterous	pre (before) + post (after) + erous. The idea that event A happens both before and after event B sounds absurd.	contrary to reason or common sense; absurd	The idea that aliens built the pyramids is preposterous.	absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous
bluster	"Sounds like ""blast her."" The boss blast her with rant, but most of which is just bombastic threat."	to talk in a loud, aggressive, or indignant way with little effect	Despite his bluster, he failed to convince anyone of his argument.	boast, rant, bellow, bombast
blasé	"Sounds like ""blasts."" After so many blasts of excitement, he became indifferent to new experiences, blasé about everything."	indifferent to something because one has experienced or seen it so often before	She was blasé about the vacation destination, having been there many times before.	indifferent, nonchalant, unconcerned
indenture	"Looks like ""in debt to."" The apprentice was in debt to his master, so he was bound by an indenture contract that required him to work for the master for 5 years."	to bind someone by a contract, especially as an apprentice or laborer	He was indentured to a blacksmith for seven years to learn the trade.	bind, contract, obligate
insurgence	"Sounds like ""inmates surged."" The inmates surged in a sudden revolt against the prison guards, showing their insurgence."	a rebellion or revolt	The insurgence was quickly put down by the government forces.	rebellion, uprising, mutiny
picayune	"Sounds like ""pikachu june."" The tiny pikachu I bought you in June was of little value, but now the price skyrockets."	of little value or importance	His concerns were dismissed as picayune, unworthy of serious attention.	petty, trivial, insignificant
splinter	The wood splintered into tiny fragments, breaking apart with a sharp crack.	to break into small fragments	The mirror splintered into a thousand pieces when it hit the ground.	fragment, shatter, split
proffer	"Looks like ""offer."" The professional offered a helping hand to the novice during job search time."	to offer or present for acceptance	He proffered his resignation after the scandal broke out.	offer, extend, present
harken back	The design of the house harkened back to ancient times, recalling the architecture of the past.	to recall or remember something from the past	The design harkens back to the elegance of the Victorian era.	recall, reminisce, evoke
atavistic	"Looks like ""a TA visit."" A TA visits her ancient notes to answer difficult questions from the students."	relating to or characterized by reversion to something ancient or ancestral	The tribe’s rituals are atavistic, rooted in their ancient past.	ancestral, primitive, ancient
persecution	"From Latin per (utterly) + sequi (follow, as in ""execute"", ""prosecute""). The refugees were followed by the hostile locals and persistent oppression and discrimination."	hostility and ill-treatment, especially because of race, political, or religious beliefs	The refugees fled their homeland to escape religious persecution.	oppression, discrimination, abuse
fracas	"Sounds like ""frantic clash."" The frantic clash in the bar turned into a full-blown quarrel, disturbing everyone nearby."	a noisy disturbance or quarrel	A fracas broke out in the bar when someone spilled a drink.	disturbance, quarrel, scuffle, brawl, affray, tussle, melee, fight, clash, skirmish, brouhaha, riot, uproar, commotion; argument, altercation
heretofore	here-to-fore looks like now to before, which means before now	before now	The technology, heretofore unknown, is now widely available to the public.	previously, until now, formerly
anodyne	From Greek an (without) + odunē (pain). The anodyne comment was painless and inoffensive.	inoffensive or unlikely to provoke; also, something that soothes pain	His speech was carefully anodyne, designed to offend no one.	harmless, bland, soothing
gingerly	To pick up ginger cookie, you have to hold it gingerly so it wouldn’t crumble.	in a careful or cautious manner	She gingerly picked up the fragile vase, afraid it might break.	cautiously, carefully, delicately
ethereal	From Greek “aether” (upper air, heaven). The ethereal music floated like ether in the air, so delicate it seemed almost heavenly.	extremely delicate and light in a way that seems too perfect for this world	The singer’s ethereal voice captivated everyone in the audience.	delicate, exquisite, heavenly
congeal	"Sounds like ""con(with) gel."" With gelatin, you can solidify jelly after cooking and letting it cool."	to solidify or coagulate, especially by cooling	The blood began to congeal on the surface of the wound.	solidify, harden, coagulate
surmise	"Sounds like ""summary."" The detective guessed the culprit based on the summary of evidence."	to suppose that something is true without having evidence to confirm it	He surmised that she was not coming to the party based on her previous comments.	guess, conjecture, speculate
inexorable	"Sounds like ""in(not) axe honorable"" We cannot axe this honorable old tree! But the automatic axe is unstoppable now."	impossible to stop or prevent	The inexorable advance of technology changes every aspect of our lives.	unstoppable, relentless, inevitable
unduly	undue + ly. The undue attention the idol received was excessively disconcerting.	to an unwarranted degree; excessively	She was unduly harsh in her criticism, making the atmosphere tense.	excessively, disproportionately, overly, inordinately
insidious	"Sounds like ""inside us."" The insidious disease crept inside us, spreading without being noticed."	proceeding in a gradual, subtle way, but with harmful effects	The disease is insidious, slowly taking over the body.The insidious spread of misinformation can be more dangerous than an outright lie.	stealthy, subtle, surreptitious
pilfer	"Sounds like ""pill fur"" The petty thief stole small pill bottles hidden in the fur."	to steal (typically things of relatively little value)	The servant was caught pilfering small items from the household.	steal, thieve, filch
adversity	"Sounds like ""ad conversion city."" The ad conversion in this city was low because consumers were facing financial struggles and difficulties."	difficulties; misfortune	She faced adversity with courage and never gave up.	hardship, difficulty, trouble
vulgar	His vulgar jokes were rude and tasteless, making everyone at the party uncomfortable.	lacking sophistication or good taste; rude or indecent	His vulgar jokes were not well received at the formal dinner.	rude, crude, tasteless
rout	The army was defeated and forced to retreat after the surprise attack on their planned route.	a disorderly retreat of defeated troops	The enemy forces were in full rout after the surprise attack.	defeat, trounce, overthrow
revamp	From re- (anew) +‎ vamp (patch, repair, or refurbish).	to give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to	The company plans to revamp its entire product line to appeal to younger customers.	renovate, overhaul, refurbish
modicum	From Latin “modicus” (moderate). He only had a mite of success as a model compared to what he had hoped for.	a small quantity of a particular thing, especially something considered desirable or valuable	He had only a modicum of respect for the rules, often bending them to his will.	bit, fragment, small amount
glut	Related to glutton. The glutton has a glut of fast food waiting for him.	an excessively abundant supply of something	The market was flooded with a glut of cheap goods after the trade agreement.	surplus, excess, overabundance
parvenu	From French parvenir (to arrive). The parvenu arrived at the hotel, flaunted nouveau his riches at the disgust of the old money.	a person of obscure origin who has gained wealth, influence, or celebrity	The parvenu’s flashy display of wealth made him the subject of much gossip.	upstart, social climber, arriviste, nouveau riche, new money
encomium		a speech or piece of writing that praises someone or something highly	The retiring CEO received an encomium from the board for his decades of service.	eulogy, panegyric, tribute
supercilious	"Sounds like ""super silly."" The supercilious attitude of the super silly rich woman made her seem haughty and unapproachable."	behaving or looking as though one thinks one is superior to others	Her supercilious attitude made it difficult for her to make friends.	arrogant, haughty, condescending
inanity	"Sounds like ""insanity."" The conversation was filled with insanity, nothing but silliness and empty chatter."	a nonsensical remark or action	The inanity of the conversation left him feeling more tired than before.	absurdity, foolishness, silliness
melange	"Sounds like ""melt range."" The range of flavors melt in the mix, creating a medley of tastes in the dish."	a mixture, often of incongruous elements	The festival featured a melange of music from different cultures.	mixture, medley, blend, variety, mixed bag, mix, miscellany, diversity, collection, selection, assortment, assemblage
dereliction	"Sound like ""de (completely) + relic + tion."" The relics were abandoned for a long time all were in dilapidation."	the state of having been abandoned and become dilapidated	The dereliction of the old factory made it a haunting sight in the abandoned district.	dilapidation, disrepair, decrepitude, deterioration, ruin; negligence, neglect, delinquency, failure; carelessness, remissness
listless	The employee was too lethargic to complete any tasks on the to-do list.	lacking energy or enthusiasm	She felt listless after the long, hot day, with no energy left to do anything.	lethargic, sluggish, ennui
broadside	"Sounds like ""broad slap."" The broadside hit like a broad slap that stung deeply."	a strong verbal attack	The politician launched a broadside against his opponent's policies.	criticism, censure, denunciation, diatribe
invective	"Sounds like ""infection."" His speech was filled with invective, like a verbal infection of abuse and insults."	insulting, abusive, or highly critical language	His speech was filled with invective, aimed at discrediting his rivals.	abuse, vituperation, censure
moot	"Sounds like ""mute."" You can't mute their voices, since this topic is debatable."	subject to debate, dispute, or uncertainty	Whether the law will pass is a moot point, as the vote has yet to take place.	debatable, arguable, unresolved
incisive	"Sounds like ""incisor."" The incisive remark cut through the confusion like an incisor, sharp and penetrating."	intelligently analytical and clear-thinking	Her incisive analysis of the situation clarified many of the issues that had confused others.	penetrating, acute, sharp, astute, shrewd, trenchant, piercing, perceptive, insightful, percipient, perspicacious, discerning, analytical, intelligent, canny, clever, smart, quick
dissimulate	dis (intensifier) + simulate. He even tried to conceal his true feelings with a faked/simulated smile.	conceal or disguise (one's thoughts, feelings, or character)	He tried to dissimulate his disappointment with a forced smile.	disguise, conceal, feign
ruse	"Sounds like ""use."" The ruse was a clever trick, like a magician’s use of deception to fool the audience."	an action intended to deceive someone	The clever ruse distracted the guards long enough for the spies to escape.	trick, ploy, feint
ungainly	un (not) + gainly (graceful). The ungainly bird looked graceless as it tried to gain its balance on the branch.	awkward and clumsy	The ungainly teenager tripped over his own feet as he entered the room.	clumsy, awkward, graceless
deign	Related to dignity. The queen conduct herself with high dignity, so she would deign to speak directly to the peasants.	to do something that one considers to be beneath one's dignity	She wouldn't even deign to acknowledge his presence, considering him unworthy of her time.	condescend, stoop, lower oneself
scruple	Related to scrupulous. He has a scruple about destroying the sculpture, since he couldn't afford damage fees if he's to be caught.	a feeling of doubt or hesitation with regard to the morality of a course of action; hesitate or be reluctant to do something that one thinks may be wrong	He had no scruples about lying to get the job.	hesitate, qualm, misgiving
pillory	"Sounds like ""bill, sorry."" If this bill is not passed, then sorry, the politician will be pilloried–meaning publicly ridiculed–by the media."	attack or ridicule publicly	The politician was pilloried by the press for his controversial remarks.	attack, criticize, censure, condemn, denigrate, lambaste, flay, savage, brand, stigmatize, denounce
sleazy		sordid, corrupt, or immoral	The sleazy hotel was notorious for its illegal activities.	sordid, corrupt, disreputable, base
ad lib	From Latin “ad libitum” (at one’s liberty). The actor ad libbed his lines when he forgot the script.	speak or perform in public without previously preparing one's words (can be verb, adjective, and adverb with the same meaning)	The comedian was known for his ability to ad lib jokes on the spot.	improvise, extemporize, wing it
waspish	wasp + ish. His waspish temper was as irritable as a wasp, stinging everyone around him with sharp words.	readily expressing anger or irritation	His waspish remarks made it clear that he was not in a good mood.	irritable, touchy, snappish
demagogue	From Greek dēmos (the people) + agōgos (leader). The politician is leading the people with rabble-rousing speeches, appealing to the demands of the masses rather than reason.	a political leader who seeks support by appealing to the desires and prejudices of ordinary people rather than by using rational argument	A gifted demagogue is skilled in manipulating the press and stirring up anger and fear among voters.	rabble-rouser, political agitator, agitator, soapbox orator, firebrand; troublemaker, incendiary; informal tub-thumper.
obscene	Think: obscene = opposite (of nice) scene. To air the movie, they had to remove scenes that are offensive	offensive to morality or decency; disgusting	The movie was banned in several countries for its obscene content.	indecent, foul, scandalous
swagger	"Sounds like ""swag."" He swaggered down the street, boasting that he's got swag."	walk or behave in a very confident and arrogant or self-important way	He entered the room with a swagger that made everyone take notice.	strut, parade, stride, roll, prance; boast, brag, bray, bluster, crow, gloat
rancorous	Looks like ran-coro-us. The woman ran around spreading coronavirus to us, so the internet's discussion was very spiteful and hostile towards her.	characterized by bitterness or resentment	Their once friendly relationship had turned rancorous after the disagreement.	bitter, spiteful, hateful, resentful, acrimonious, malicious, malevolent, malign, malignant, hostile, antipathetic, venomous, vindictive, baleful, vengeful, vitriolic, virulent, pernicious, mean, nasty
gaudy	The gaudy decorations were so showy and ostentatious	extravagantly bright or showy, typically so as to be tasteless	The gaudy decorations at the party were more distracting than festive.	showy, ostentatious, garish
behemoth	Looks like: bee-huge-mammoth. Your company might take this one deal from that behemoth conglomerate, but it is no different from a bee sting to a huge mammoth.	something enormous, especially a large and powerful organization	The multinational corporation was a behemoth in the industry, dominating markets worldwide.	giant, colossus, colossal, elephantine, enormous, gargantuan, gigantic, brobdingnagian
leviathan	The ship was like leviathan–a colossal creature of the sea.	a thing that is very large or powerful, especially a ship or a whale	The cruise ship was a leviathan, dwarfing everything else in the harbor.	giant, colossus, behemoth
obliterate	ob (obstruct) + literate. The bomb obliterated the museum, destroying it and erasing all literature writings inside.	to destroy utterly; wipe out	The bomb obliterated the entire city block.	destroy, wipe out, annihilate, exterminate, extirpate, demolish, eliminate, eradicate, decimate, liquidate; erase, eradicate, expunge, efface, blot out, rub out, wipe out
salient	From Latin “salire” (leap, jump). The points stands out to Sally as important.	most noticeable or important	The salient points of his argument were clear and well-supported by evidence.	important, primary, notable, noteworthy, outstanding, arresting, conspicuous, striking, noticeable, obvious, remarkable, signal, prominent, pronounced, predominant, dominant, key, crucial, vital, essential, critical, pivotal, prime, central, focal, paramount
putative	"Same Latin root ""putare"" (think) as reputed. The putative father was supposed to be the child’s parent, though it was not yet confirmed."	generally considered or reputed to be	The putative father of the child was called in for a paternity test.	supposed, assumed, presumed
ersatz	The ersatz coffee tasted artificial, a poor substitute for the real thing.	made or used as a substitute, typically an inferior one	The coffee was a poor ersatz for the real thing, lacking the rich flavor he loved.	artificial, substitute, imitation
aplomb	Sounds like a plum. He handled the situation with aplomb, like a plum that stays calm in the storm.	Self-confidence, especially in a difficult situation	She handled the difficult questions with aplomb.	Poise, assurance, composure
apposite	"Looks like ""a positive,"" something fitting or suitable. A positive comment is perfectly fitting this spirited discussion."	Appropriate, suitable	His comments were apposite to the discussion.	Relevant, pertinent, fitting
beholden	"Sounds like ""be holding,"" as if holding onto a debt. He felt beholden, like he was holding onto a debt he owed her."	Owing thanks or having a duty to someone in return for help	He felt beholden to his mentor for his success.	Indebted, obligated, obliged, bound
belittle	"Sounds like ""be little,"" to make something or someone seem small. He tried to belittle her achievements, making them seem less significant."	To make someone or something seem less important	He belittled her achievements during the meeting.	Disparage, deprecate, demean
cluster	"Sounds like ""clutter,"" a group of things close together. The cluster of stars cluttered the night sky with their brightness."	A group of similar things or people positioned closely together	A cluster of students gathered around the teacher.	Group, bunch, collection
coherent	From co- (together) + here (to stick). Her argument was coherent, with all points sticking together neatly.	Logical and consistent	Her argument was clear and coherent.	Logical, consistent, rational
contemplate	From con + temple + ate. The temple is a fitting place for you to consider and deliberate over your past, current, and future.	To think deeply or carefully about	She contemplated the meaning of life.	Ponder, consider, reflect
crafty	"Sounds like ""craft,"" using skill in a clever way. The crafty fox used his skills to outwit the hunters."	Clever at achieving one's aims by indirect or deceitful methods	The crafty fox managed to steal the bait.	Cunning, sly, devious
dismantle	dis (not) + mantle (cloak, fortify). They dismantled the tent, taking it apart piece by piece.	To take apart	The mechanic dismantled the engine to fix the problem.	Disassemble, deconstruct, break down
elaborate	From e- (out) + labor (work) + ate. After I work out this elaborate plan, I will elaborate (expatiate on) it for you.	involving many careful details; to explain in detaildevelop or present (a theory, policy, or system) in detail	The architect presented an elaborate plan for the building.	Detailed, intricate; expound, develop
exegesis	"From Greek exegeisthai, meaning ""to explain."" The professor’s exegesis of the text made the complex ideas clear."	Critical explanation or interpretation of a text	The professor's exegesis of the poem was enlightening.	Interpretation, explanation, analysis
forgo	for- (neglect, renunciation) + -go (leave). For going out hiking today, forgo the unnecessary, and come with necessities.	To do without	He decided to forgo the dessert to maintain his diet.	give up, renounce, surrender, relinquish, abstain from
impenetrable	im (not) + penetrate (get through) + able (can). The fact that the fortress was impenetrable, with walls too strong to break, was the norm for peasants. Other thoughts were beyond (impenetrable to) them.	Impossible to pass through or enter; impossible to understand	The fortress walls were impenetrable.	Impervious, unbreachable, incomprehensible
impervious	im (not) + per (through) + via (way) + ous. The flood can not pass through this way, so our village will be unaffected.	Unable to be affected by	She was impervious to their criticism.	Resistant, unaffected, immune; impermeable
inept	"Sounds like ""in-apt,"" meaning not suited or skilled. His inept handling of the tools showed he was not apt."	Having or showing no skill; clumsy	His inept handling of the situation made it worse.	Incompetent, unskilled, clumsy
martinet	"Sounds like ""mart-in-net."" The new cashier in the mart was a martinet, counting each penny like counting fish in a net."	A strict disciplinarian	The new coach was a martinet, demanding discipline from all the players.	Disciplinarian, taskmaster, authoritarian
narcissism	From the Greek myth of Narcissus, who loved his own reflection. His narcissism was evident as he admired himself constantly.	Excessive interest in or admiration of oneself	His narcissism was evident in his constant self-praise.	Self-love, vanity, egotism
objurgation	"From Latin objurgare, meaning ""to scold."" The objurgation from his boss left him feeling scolded and humiliated."	Harsh criticism or reprimand	The manager’s objurgation left the team feeling demoralized.	Rebuke, scolding, reprimand
passable	"Sounds like ""pass-able,"" just enough to pass or be acceptable. The food was passable, not great, but good enough to eat."	Just good enough to be acceptable; satisfactory	The meal was passable but nothing special.	Adequate, acceptable, satisfactory
penetrating	Her penetrating gaze seemed to see right through him.	Able to make a way through or into something; showing insight	Her penetrating questions revealed the flaws in the plan.	Insightful, perceptive, piercing
picturesque	picture + sque. The view from the mountain was picturesque, like a beautiful picture	Visually attractive, especially in a quaint or charming way	The village was picturesque, with its charming cottages and gardens.	Scenic, charming, beautiful
reflect	"Sounds like ""re-flect,"" to bend back or think deeply. She reflected on her past, thinking deeply about her experiences."	To think deeply or carefully about; to throw back light or heat	She took a moment to reflect on her actions.	Consider, contemplate; mirror, echo
resourceful	resource + -ful. The resourceful student utilized all her available resources wisely to solve the problem.	Having the ability to find quick and clever ways to overcome difficulties	The resourceful student solved the problem creatively.	Ingenious, inventive, capable
retrench	"Sounds like ""re-trench."" The soldiers have to, again, dig the trench themselves, since the millitary is retrenching to curb their expenses."	To reduce costs or spending in response to economic difficulty	The company had to retrench to survive the recession.	Cut back, economize, downsize
self-indulgent	His self-indulgent lifestyle revolved around doing whatever pleased himself	Characterized by doing or tending to do exactly what one wants	He led a self-indulgent lifestyle, prioritizing his own pleasures.	Hedonistic, indulgent, unrestrained
speculate	"Sounds like ""specs-late."" The magic spectacles allow you to see some parts of your late future, guessing what comes next."	To form a theory or conjecture without firm evidence	They speculated about the causes of the accident.	Theorize, hypothesize, conjecture
staid	"Sounds like ""stayed."" The staid professor always stayed calm and composed, no matter the situation."	Sedate, respectable, and unadventurous	The staid gentleman always followed the rules.	sedate, respectable, quiet, serious, solemn, sober, steady, conventional, traditional, unadventurous, unenterprising
suppress	From Latin sub- (down) + press. The government tried to suppress the protest, pressing down on dissent.	To forcibly put an end to	The government attempted to suppress the protests.	Quash, stifle, subdue
vestigial	vestige (a trace or footprint) + -al. The vestigial remains of the old structure hinted at its past glory.	Forming a very small remnant of something that was once much larger	The vestigial tail of the animal is evidence of its evolutionary past.	Residual, remaining, rudimentary
accord	"Sounds like ""a chord,"" harmony or agreement. The two leaders reached an accord, their agreement like a chord in perfect harmony."	an official agreement or treaty	the two countries reached an accord on the trade issues.	agreement, pact, treaty
ad hoc	"From Latin ad hoc, meaning ""for this."" An ad hoc committee was created just for this specific issue."	created or done for a particular purpose as necessary	an ad hoc committee was formed to address the issue.	impromptu, improvised, makeshift
adhere	"From Latin adhaerere, meaning ""to stick to."" She adhered to her principles, sticking firmly to what she believed in."	to stick to something; to follow a practice or belief	he adhered to the rules despite the challenges.	stick to, follow, comply
all-encompassing	The report was all-encompassing, covering every aspect of the issue.	including or covering everything	the report provided an all-encompassing view of the situation.	comprehensive, inclusive, complete
aphorism	a-pho-ri-sm sounds like a phrase of wisdom (a proverb or maxim)	a pithy observation that contains a general truth	"The saying ""time is money"" is a classic aphorism."	saying, maxim, axiom, adage, precept, epigram, epigraph, dictum, proverb
benchmark	We use the benches in the park to mark a standard of how many people visit daily, setting a benchmark for future comparisons.	a standard or point of reference against which things may be compared	the new model set a benchmark for future designs.	standard, criterion, yardstick
blighted	"Sounds like ""but light."" The crops were healthy, but light exposure suddenly changed, leaving them blighted and ruined."	spoiled, harmed, or destroyed	the crops were blighted by the early frost.	ruined, marred, damaged
content	"From Latin contentus, meaning ""satisfied."" She was content with the content she learned today"	in a state of peaceful happiness	she was content with her life in the countryside.	satisfied, pleased, at ease
debase	de (lower) + base. To lower the base means to degrade	to reduce the quality or value of something	the scandal debased the politician’s reputation.	degrade, demean, tarnish
disconcerting	Looks like dis(rupted) concert. The disrupted concert, along with the performer's injuries, made the fans feel disconcerting.	causing one to feel unsettled	the unexpected news was disconcerting to everyone in the room.	disturbing, unsettling, troubling
extant	Looks like exists ant (or existant). The ant still exists after being squashed by my electric mosquito net. It's surviving.	still in existence; surviving	the extant manuscripts provide a glimpse into the past.	existing, surviving, remaining
facility	From facile (easy or done with ease). She has a facility for languages, picking them up with ease.	a natural ability to do or learn something well and easily	she had a facility for languages, picking them up quickly.	aptitude, talent, skill
fitful	fit + ful. His sleep was fitful after a hardcore fitness day, full of interruptions caused by pain.	active or occurring spasmodically or intermittently	the patient’s fitful sleep was interrupted by pain.	intermittent, sporadic, spasmodic, broken, disturbed, disrupted, patchy, irregular
incite	From Latin incitare (to stir up). His speech incited the crowd, stirring them up to take action.	to encourage or stir up (violent or unlawful behavior)	his speech incited the crowd to riot.	provoke, instigate, stir up
induce	"From Latin inducere, meaning ""to lead into."" The advertisement induced people to buy the product, leading them into the decision."	to succeed in persuading or leading someone to do somethingto bring about or give rise to	the advertisement induced many people to try the new product.these activities induce a feeling of social togetherness.	persuade, encourage, prompt, instigate, influence, urgebring about, cause, produce, effect, create, generate, originate, instigate, engender
infelicity	From Latin in- (not) + felicitas (happiness), meaning an unfortunate situation. His joke was an infelicity, inappropriate for the occasion.	a thing that is inappropriate or unfortunate	his remark was an infelicity at the solemn occasion.	inappropriateness, blunder, awkwardness
intelligible	"Same Latin root intellegere (understand) as ""intellect,"" ""intelligent."" Her explanation was clear and intelligible to everyone."	able to be understood	the teacher’s explanation was clear and intelligible.	comprehensible, understandable, clear
makeshift	"Sounds like ""make-shift,"" Paper receipts was made temporarily for this shift, substituting the usual electric POS."	serving as a temporary substitute	they used a cardboard box as a makeshift table.	temporary, provisional, improvised
onetime	"Sounds like ""one-time,"" referring to something that was in the past. The onetime champion is now a coach, having retired from competition."	former	the onetime champion was now coaching the next generation of athletes.	former, previous, erstwhile
opportunistic	opportunity + stic. The opportunistic investor seized every opportunity to make a profit.	taking advantage of opportunities as they arise	the opportunistic thief struck when no one was looking.	calculating, cunning, strategic
plausible	"Sounds like ""applause-able,"" something worthy of applause because it’s believable."	seeming reasonable or probable	her explanation seemed plausible given the circumstances.	credible, believable, reasonable
posturing	"Sounds like ""posing,"" acting in a way to impress others. The politician’s posing was to posture an image of kind leader."	behavior intended to impress or mislead	the politician’s posturing during the debate was obvious to the audience.	pretending, posing, bluffing
potent	"From Latin potentem, meaning ""powerful."" The medicine was potent, powerful enough to relieve the pain immediately."	having great power, influence, or effect	the medicine was potent enough to relieve the pain immediately.	powerful, strong, effective
redundant	The extra details in his speech were redundant, unnecessary and overflowing with repetition.	no longer needed or useful; superfluous	the company made several positions redundant during the restructuring.	unnecessary, superfluous, excessive
sacrosanct	From sacro (short for scared) + sanctus (holy). The tradition was sacrosanct, regarded as important and inviolable 	regarded as too important or valuable to be interfered with	the tradition was considered sacrosanct by the community.	inviolable, untouchable, sacred
shrewd	shrewd >< screw. Without her friend's shrewd judgment in investing, she might screw up her portfolio.	having or showing sharp powers of judgment	the shrewd investor made a lot of money in the stock market.	astute, clever, sharp
unadorned	un + adorn + ed. The room was unadorned, simple yet elegant in its lack of decoration.	plain, not decorated	the unadorned room was simple but elegant.	plain, simple, undecorated
valedictory	From Latin vale- (farewell) + dicere (to say). His valedictory speech was a heartfelt farewell to his classmates.	serving as a farewell	the valedictory speech was full of gratitude and nostalgia.	farewell, parting, goodbye
warranted	warrenty = written guarantee. The strict measures were warranted, necessary to ensure safety.	justified or necessitated	the drastic measures were warranted by the circumstances.	justified, necessary, appropriate
wistful	Influenced by wishful. She looked at the old photos with a wistful smile, longing for the past and wishful for the future.	having or showing a feeling of vague or regretful longing	she looked at the old photos with a wistful smile.	yearning, longing, nostalgic
attribute	From Latin ad- ‘to’ + tribuere ‘assign’	to regard something as being caused by	She attributed her success to hard work and determination.	ascribe, credit, assign
calamitous	calamity (great loss or disaster) + ous. The calamitous storm was a disaster to the village.	involving great misfortune or disaster	The calamitous earthquake destroyed much of the city.	disastrous, catastrophic, tragic
censor	Sounds like sensor. That heat sensor was like a censor, detecting and blocking anything inappropriate.	to examine and remove objectionable content	The movie was censored before its release.	suppress, delete, redact
compound	His lies compounded on previous lies, worsening the relationship; she no longer trusted him.	to make something worse by adding to it	His lies only compounded the problem.	worsen, aggravate, increase
deter	Sounds like detour—a route that prevents you from taking a direct path. The harsh penalties deterred people from taking a detour into crime.	to discourage or prevent from taking action	The threat of punishment did not deter him from committing the crime.	discourage, dissuade, prevent
dexterous	From Latin dexter—right-hand, indicating skillfulness. My right-handed friend could perform skillful magic tricks with his left hand.	skillful and quick in one's movements	The dexterous magician amazed the audience with his tricks.	nimble, agile, adept
dictum	"Same root ""dict"" (to say) as dictionary, dictate, indict. The dictator's dictum was final and unquestionable."	a formal pronouncement from an authoritative source; a short statement that expresses a general truth or principle	The judge's dictum was final.	pronouncement, proclamation, injunction, assertion, statement, decree, edict; saying, maxim, axiom, proverb
dutiful	duty + ful. She was dutiful, always fulfilling her duties without question.	conscientiously or obediently fulfilling one's duty	She was a dutiful daughter, always helping her parents.	obedient, responsible, compliant
empathetic	From Greek em- ‘in’ + pathos ‘feeling’ (feeling into someone else's situation). he empathetic nurse can put herself in the shoes of the patients.	showing understanding and sharing another's feelings	The empathetic nurse comforted the patient.	compassionate, understanding, sympathetic
ensue	Sounds like in sue. When I decide sue her for slander, I know the lengthy lawsuits will ensue.	to happen or occur afterward or as a result	After the argument, silence ensued.	follow, result, succeed
fathom	Looks like fat thumb. He had a fat thumb (fathom) but the doctor couldn't understand why.	to understand after much thought	She couldn't fathom why he lied to her.	comprehend, grasp, understand
frank	Looks like f-rank. To be frank, I don't give a f about ranks.	open, honest, and direct in speech or writing	He was frank about his concerns.	candid, honest, straightforward
grumble	Looks like g-rumble (a low, muttered complaint). He grumbled, his complaints rumbling under his breath.	to complain or protest about something in a bad-tempered way	He grumbled about the long hours.	complain, mutter, gripe
hidebound	From hide (skin) + bound (restricted). The hidebound farmer, with old skin and bound by tradition, refused to consider any new ways of farming.	unwilling or unable to change because of tradition or convention	The hidebound old professor refused to adapt to new teaching methods.	conservative, inflexible, narrow-minded
hypocrite	Sounds like hippo in disguise: pretending to be something you're not.	a person who indulges in hypocrisy	He was called a hypocrite for criticizing others for faults he had.	pretender, deceiver, phony
impolitic	Looks like impolite. Being impolite in a career fair is an unwise choice that could jeopardize your career.	failing to possess or display prudence	It was impolitic to bring up such a controversial topic.	unwise, imprudent, reckless
intermediary	From Latin inter- ‘between’ + medius ‘middle’ (in the middle). The intermediary stood in the middle, negotiating peace between the groups.	a person who acts as a link between people in order to try to bring about an agreement	The lawyer acted as an intermediary between the two parties.	mediator, go-between, negotiator
passive	active >< passive	accepting or allowing what happens without active response	She remained passive during the argument.	submissive, inactive, compliant
raillery	Sounds like rally (a friendly exchange that lifts spirits). His raillery at the rally kept everyone in good spirits.	good-humored teasing	His raillery made everyone laugh.	banter, jesting, teasing
ramble	Looks like r-amble. He rambled through his speech without focus, like an amble without direction.	to talk or write at length in a confused or inconsequential way	He rambled on about his plans for the weekend.	wander, meander, digress
resent	Sounds like re-send. He kept resending the message, but the wifi connection failed. He resented not having enough data.	to feel bitterness or indignation at	She resented being left out of the decision-making process.	begrudge, dislike, feel aggrieved
residual	The residual effects of the storm lingered since it haunted the residents here.	remaining after the greater part has been removed	There was some residual moisture in the bottle.	remaining, leftover, lingering
resolve	Sounds like re-solve. He determined to re-solve the problem, no matter how long it took.	to decide firmly on a course of action	He resolved to work harder in the coming year.	determine, decide, settle
surrogate	She acted as a surrogate mother, standing in for the real one.	a substitute, especially a person deputizing for another in a specific role	She acted as a surrogate mother for the childless couple.	substitute, proxy, stand-in
vilify	"Same root as ""villain."" The villain in the story was villified from the perspective of the protagonist."	to speak or write about in an abusively disparaging manner	He was vilified by the press for his actions.	defame, slander, malign
willful	will + ful. The willful child insisted on doing everything according to her will.	having or showing a stubborn and determined intention to do as one wants	The child was willful, refusing to follow instructions.	stubborn, headstrong, obstinate
phony	Looks like phone-y. Phone scams, among many others, are fradulent.	not genuine; fraudulent	His apologies always seemed phony to me.	fake, fraudulent, insincere
predicate	pre (before) + dicate (indicate, make known).	found or base something on	all the social sciences are predicated on the notion that individuals are not isolated.	base, be dependent, found, establish, rest, build, ground, premise
paramount	From Greek para- (beyond) + mount (amount).	more important than anything else; supreme	the interests of the child are of paramount importancethe safety of the staff is paramount	most important; uppermost, supreme,
disquietude	dis + quiet + tude. When she cannot be quietened and keeps rambling, she's probably feeling much anxiety.	a state of uneasiness or anxiety	such passages reflect a sense of disquietude, of alienation even	anxiety, uneasiness
maverick	Looks like “marvel (at the) trick.” The maverick magician performed a daring new act, leaving the audience to marvel at the trick no one had seen before. He became a trendsetter later on.	an unorthodox or independent-minded person	He was too much of a maverick to fit into any formal organization	individualist, nonconformist, unorthodox person, unconventional person, original, trendsetter, bohemian, eccentric, outsider; rebel, dissenter, dissident, disruptor
lachrymose		tearful or given to weeping	She gets quite lachrymose at the mention of his nameIt's a lachrymose, tragic novel	tearful, weeping, sobbing, sniveling, whimpering; tragic, sad, poignant
grotesque	Looks like gross + esque. That shit is gross to the point of outrageous.	incongruous or inappropriate to a shocking degree	stories of grotesque mismanagement and wasting of money	outrageous, monstrous, astonishing, preposterous, ridiculous, ludicrous, farcical, unbelievable
propound		put forward (an idea, theory, or point of view) for consideration by others	the theory of relativity was first propounded by Albert Einstein in 1905	put forward, advance, propose, offer, present, submit, tender, suggest, broach, moot, bring up, mention, introduce, postulate, pose, discuss, hypothesize, peddle, spread, promote, advocate, proffer, posit
phantasm	The child’s fear of the dark was fueled by a phantasm that a phantom was lurking in the shadows he couldn't see.	a figment of the imagination; an illusion or apparition	illusion, apparition	the cart seemed to glide like a terrible phantasm
adumbrate	From Latin ad (to, on) + umbra (shade) + ate. The artist began to adumbrate her next painting, sketching faint outlines that foreshadowed the masterpiece to come.	report or represent in outline foreshadow or symbolize overshadow	they have adumbrated the importance of education as a means of social transformationwhat qualities in Christ are adumbrated by the vine?her happy reminiscences were adumbrated by consciousness of something else
